 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


































Home
                            


















Weather
                              
64°
                




















Local
                            


















Nation Now
                            


















Traffic
                            


















Features
                            


















Sports
                            


















About
                            



















                  Video
                  















                  Photos
                  















                  Charlotte Today
                  















                  Help For You
                  
















More
        














Home
                 






Weather
                 






Local
                 






Nation Now
                 






Traffic
                 






Features
                 






Sports
                 






About
                 






Video
                 






Photos
                 






Charlotte Today
                 






Help For You
                 



























                  Search
                




















User










Sign in with Facebook


Sign In FAQ






 You are logged in as 
							




Log out


Sign In FAQ




































Close






























































































































































Betsy DeVos confirmed education secretary in historic vote






















Protesters are gathering outside Senator Thom Tillis' office to protest President Trump. 
















Todd Spangler, Detroit Free Press , WCNC


12:35 PM. EST February 07, 2017




























 Betsy DeVos arrives for her Secretary of Education confirmation hearing in the Trump administration on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, on January 17, 2016. 


(Photo: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP/Getty Images)


























CONNECT








TWEET








LINKEDIN








GOOGLE+








PINTEREST








WASHINGTON — The Senate confirmed Betsy DeVos as the nation's 11th Education secretary Tuesday in a historic vote, ending a tumultuous battle over her nomination.
DeVos, 59, has long been a polarizing figure in Michigan's political and education circles for her support of school vouchers and charter schools. In the weeks since a rocky confirmation hearing, she became a cause celebre   for opponents who say she is unfit and unqualified to serve. Congressional offices were inundated with angry calls urging her to be rejected, she was the subject of angry teacher protests nationwide, and her performance as a nominee was ridiculed on Saturday Night Live.
With only two Republican members of the Senate — Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — refusing to support DeVos' nomination, it left Democrats with a 50-50 tie to block her. Vice President Pence, in his role as Senate president, cast the tie-breaking vote in her favor.
It marked the first time in U.S. history that a vice president was called upon to break a tie vote over a presidential Cabinet nomination, which are usually routine votes regardless of which party is in power: No nominee has been rejected since John Tower's nomination as Defense secretary in 1989. In order to confirm DeVos, Republicans also held off confirming Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., as attorney general, needing his vote.
As secretary, DeVos takes over an agency with about 4,500 employees and a budget of about $70 billion that administers and establishes policies for federal assistance to the states for secondary schools and higher education, as well as helping to enforce federal laws involving schools.
Some Republicans have called for the department's dissolution, arguing it is a federal intrusion into what should be a purely state and local institution. However, DeVos has vowed not only to enforce public laws but to support traditional public schools, saying she advocates for any kind of school that gives parents and students the choices they want.
DeVos said at her hearing she supports "any great school" — including public schools and those beyond what "the (public school) system thinks is best for kids, to what moms and dads want, expect and deserve."
Democrats, noting that she and her wealthy family — she is the wife of Amway heir  Dick DeVos, a former Republican candidate for Michigan governor — have spent millions on behalf of conservative candidates and causes, rejected her claims. They said she had no experience as an educator, administrator or even as a parent or student in public schools. Collins and Murkowski, too, said they worried that her commitment to public schools was not great enough to earn their support, since there are few choices to public schools in their rural states.
Democrats went further. They argued that she doesn't understand the policies she'll be tasked with enforcing, noting that in her hearing  she fumbled a question about a landmark 1975 law protecting education for students with disabilities, seeming unaware of the law. She also made a joke at the hearing, saying she would not necessarily support banning guns from all schools because of the potential threat from grizzly bears in some wilderness areas.
"It's not Democrats who are bitter about the election," said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. "It's the American people who are bitter about the nomination of Betsy DeVos." He added that she "could not answer the most fundamental questions about public education."
But even as Democrats went to the Senate floor to talk about DeVos throughout the night Monday, Republicans continued to defend her, saying her support of charter schools and school choice, if anything, suggests a secretary who is prepared to shake up traditional education.
“I have every confidence that Mrs. DeVos will lead the Department of Education in such a way as to put our students first,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said Monday. Last week, after Collins and Murkowski announced their rejection of DeVos, other potential Republican targets quickly coalesced around her. Sen. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., tweeted, "Lest there be any doubt about how I'm voting on @BetsyDeVos she had me at 'school choice' years ago."
As Republicans and DeVos' supporters argued that her support of charter schools in Michigan has led to improvements in education, Democrats and DeVos' other critics said the evidence suggests otherwise, such as in Detroit. While DeVos has said “a lot that has gone right in Detroit” because of charter schools given the level of poverty, data from Detroit Public Schools and charters schools have shown neither with particularly strong results.
A Free Press review of 2015 results on the Michigan Student Test of Educational Performance showed that 9.6% of students in the district were considered proficient on the exam, compared with 14.5% of charter schools. DeVos has also been criticized in Michigan as having helped to defeat efforts to subject charter schools to more scrutiny.
Speaking on the Senate floor Monday, Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., argued against DeVos’ confirmation, saying she has “undermined efforts to regulate Michigan charters even when they’ve clearly failed” and that “her hostility toward public education disqualifies her.”
DeVos' support of school vouchers, which allow public money to follow students to the schools of their choice, and charter schools, which often operate outside the traditional neighborhood public school system, goes back decades. While supporters say they generate competition and give students and parents important educational choices, detractors say they can rob traditional public schools of support. Many Democrats support charter schools as well, however.


Copyright 2017 WCNC












CONNECT








TWEET








LINKEDIN








GOOGLE+








PINTEREST






































 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
 
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the 
 
Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
 
 
 
Leave a Comment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRENDING VIDEOS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panicked calls to 911 after armed robbery
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lowe's laying off more than 500 employees
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One killed in crash
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Armed sex offense suspect shot in standoff
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Child's spanking caught on camera
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local football coach says he was fired over social media post
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NC gun owners targeted in phone scam
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National Margarita Day
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No arrests, no suspects after teen killed
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Married on Tuesday; deported on Wednesday
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More Stories
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Health Dept. failed to contact nearly 200 women after tests
 
 
Feb 22, 2017, 9:29 a.m.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Armed robber scares Gastonia Target shoppers
 
 
Feb 21, 2017, 10:07 p.m.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trump administration to revoke rights of transgender…
 
 
Feb 22, 2017, 12:48 p.m.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Us 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact Us 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporters Index 
 
 
 
 
 
Help 
 
 
 
 
 
Connect With Us 
 
 
 
 
 
FCC Online Public Inspection File 
 • 
EEO Public File Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Weather 
 
 
 
 
7 Day Forecast 
 
 
 
Closings & Delays 
 
 
 
Submit a Closing 
 
 
 
Radars 
 
 
 
Conditions 
 
 
 
Cameras 
 
 
 
 More... 
 
 
 
Storm Tracker 
 
 
 
Hurricane Central 
 
 
 
More Weather 
 
 
 
Health Detail 
 
 
 
Weather Alerts 
 
 
 
Your Pics 
 
 
 
National Webcams 
 
 
 
Location Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Local 
 
 
 
 
News Tips 
 
 
 
Keith Scott Shooting 
 
 
 
Get McGinty 
 
 
 
Consumer 
 
 
 
Health 
 
 
 
Defenders 
 
 
 
 More... 
 
 
 
Politics 
 
 
 
HB2 
 
 
 
Restaurant Report Card 
 
 
 
Ways to Save 
 
 
 
Decision 2016 
 
 
 
News Links 
 
 
 
More Local 
 
 
 
Crime 
 
 
 
Business 
 
 
 
Slideshows 
 
 
 
Ballantyne 
 
 
 
Dilworth - Meyers Park - Cotwold 
 
 
 
Gastonia 
 
 
 
Hickory 
 
 
 
Lincolnton 
 
 
 
Mecklenburg Mugs 
 
 
 
Plaza Midwood 
 
 
 
Regional 
 
 
 
Rock Hill 
 
 
 
South End - Willmore - Wesley Heights 
 
 
 
SouthPark - Madison Park 
 
 
 
University - Highland Creek 
 
 
 
Uptown - First Ward - Fourth Ward 
 
 
 
Billy Graham 
 
 
 
Make A Difference Day 
 
 
 
Charlie Foxtrot 
 
 
 
Side Effects 
 
 
 
Impact 
 
 
 
Year in Review 
 
 
 
If My Parents Only Knew 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Nation Now 
 
 
 
 
/section/global/nation-now-old 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Traffic 
 
 
 
 
Gas Prices 
 
 
 
Cameras 
 
 
 
Driving Smart 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Features 
 
 
 
 
Road to a Better Community 
 
 
 
Dream Day 
 
 
 
Give Here For Kids Here 
 
 
 
Deals of the Day 
 
 
 
Ways to Save 
 
 
 
T.D. Jakes 
 
 
 
 More... 
 
 
 
Looking out for your health 
 
 
 
Buddy Check 
 
 
 
Community 
 
 
 
Magnify Money 
 
 
 
Entertainment 
 
 
 
Shop Small Give More 
 
 
 
Events 
 
 
 
Formula 4 The Future 
 
 
 
Strange News 
 
 
 
More Features 
 
 
 
Charlotte Today 
 
 
 
Be The Match 
 
 
 
Oscars 
 
 
 
Editors Picks 
 
 
 
Grammys 
 
 
 
Charlotte Today Recipes 
 
 
 
Larrys Look 
 
 
 
Wise Rides 
 
 
 
Wheel of Fortune 
 
 
 
Thankful 
 
 
 
Legal Smarts 
 
 
 
NORAD Santa Tracker 
 
 
 
toyota of north charlotte 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sports 
 
 
 
 
Panthers 
 
 
 
Hornets 
 
 
 
High School Sports 
 
 
 
College 
 
 
 
NASCAR 
 
 
 
Checkers 
 
 
 
 More... 
 
 
 
Knights 
 
 
 
Slideshows 
 
 
 
Independence 
 
 
 
Wells Fargo Golf 
 
 
 
Carolina Huddle 
 
 
 
Tennis 
 
 
 
Golf 
 
 
 
NHL 
 
 
 
MLS 
 
 
 
Sports Photos 
 
 
 
More Sports 
 
 
 
Submit Photos 
 
 
 
NCAA Basketball Tournament 
 
 
 
Super Bowl 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About 
 
 
 
 
Meet The Team 
 
 
 
Advertise With Us 
 
 
 
Work at WCNC 
 
 
 
Contact Us 
 
 
 
News Tips 
 
 
 
Social Media 
 
 
 
 More... 
 
 
 
Closed Captioning 
 
 
 
TV Listings 
 
 
 
More About Us 
 
 
 
Privacy 
 
 
 
Terms 
 
 
 
FAQ 
 
 
 
RSS 
 
 
 
Connect With Us 
 
 
 
Text Alerts 
 
 
 
Ad Choices 
 
 
 
Community Rules 
 
 
 
FCC Public Inspection File 
 
 
 
Conversation Guidelines 
 
 
 
Justice Network 
 
 
 
Newsletters 
 
 
 
Whats On NBC 
 
 
 
Cobrand Header 
 
 
 
Cobrand Footer 
 
 
 
Survey 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 © 2017 WCNC-TV 
 
 
 
Services
 
 
 
Advertise With Us 
 
 
 
WCNC Jobs 
 
 
 
Closed Captioning Procedures 
 
 
 
FCC Online Public Inspection Form 
 
 
 
Terms of Service 
 
 
 
Privacy Notice/Your California Privacy Rights 
 
 
 
Ad Choices 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Partners
 
 
 
NBC 
 
 
 
Career Builder 
 
 
 
cars.com 
 
 
 
Justice Network 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Site
 
 
 
Relevance
 
Date
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
