

















X








Edition:




United States


















































Business








Business Home


Legal


Deals


Aerospace & Defense






Finance


Autos


Reuters Summits


ADventures






Data Dive












Markets








Markets Home


U.S. Markets


European Markets


Asian Markets






Global Market Data


Stocks


Bonds


Currencies






Commodities


Futures


Funds


Earnings






Dividends












World








World Home


U.S.


Special Reports


Reuters Investigates






Euro Zone


Middle East


China


Japan






Mexico


Brazil


Africa


Russia






India












Politics








Politics Home


Polling Explorer


Live: Trump's First 100 Days


Supreme Court
















Tech








Technology Home


Science


Top 100 Global Innovators


Media






Environment


Innovation












Commentary








Commentary Home 


Podcasts












Breakingviews








Breakingviews Home


Breakingviews Video












Money








Money Home


Retirement


Lipper Awards


Analyst Research






Stock Screener


Fund Screener












Life








Health


Sports


Arts


Entertainment






Oddly Enough
















Pictures










Pictures Home


The Wider Image


Photographers


Focus 360




















Video































            Trump's pick for labor secretary admits to employing illegal immigrant
























Africa


América Latina






عربي


Argentina






Brasil


Canada






中国


Deutschland






España


France






India


Italia






日本


México






РОССИЯ


United Kingdom




United States






































Politics


|


Tue Feb 7, 2017 | 12:20pm EST




Trump's pick for labor secretary admits to employing illegal immigrant







































                                	U.S. President Donald Trump is welcomed as he speaks to commanders and coalition representatives during a visit to U.S. Central Command and U.S. Special Operations Command at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, Florida, U.S., February 6, 2017.  

                                	
                                		REUTERS/Carlos Barria
















By 
Sarah N. Lynch


|
 WASHINGTON




WASHINGTON
 U.S. President Donald Trump's choice to lead the Labor Department admitted to employing an undocumented immigrant as a house cleaner, the kind of revelation that derailed Cabinet nominees in previous administrations.
Andrew Puzder, chief executive officer of CKE Restaurants Inc, is one of several Trump nominees who face strong opposition from Senate Democrats and progressive groups.
In a statement late on Monday, Puzder said he and his wife had employed a housekeeper for a few years without being aware that she was not legally permitted to work in the United States.
"When I learned of her status, we immediately ended her employment and offered her assistance in getting legal status," he said in the statement. He said he paid back taxes for employing the maid to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and to California. 
The statement was first reported by the Huffington Post.
Senator Lamar Alexander, chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, the panel that will vet Puzder's nomination, said in a statement that Puzder had reported his mistake and voluntarily corrected it.
"I do not believe that this should disqualify him from being a cabinet secretary," he added.


The disclosure came as Senate Democrats held an all-night session in a final attempt to block the nomination of Betsy DeVos, the billionaire school-choice champion whom Trump nominated to be education secretary. 
Puzder's tentative date for a confirmation hearing has been repeatedly postponed, as the committee awaited completion of an ethics review by the Office of Government Ethics.
As of Tuesday, the committee had still not received any of the necessary paperwork on Puzder's nomination, though the Federal Bureau of Investigation background check had been completed, according to a committee aide.
Senator Patty Murray, the ranking Democrat on the panel, said on Tuesday she was troubled by the delay and by stories from workers for CKE's primarily franchised fast-food restaurants who have come forward in recent weeks to complain about wage theft and other labor conditions.


"If Mr. Puzder ever does come before our committee, he’s going to have a lot of explaining to do," she said.
Puzder's nomination has sparked protests around the country by some CKE fast-food workers and the union-backed "Fight for $15" movement to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
Puzder has criticized an overtime rule championed by the Obama administration and opposes raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
Additionally, some of CKE's racy advertisements featuring women in bikinis have caused Democrats to ask questions about how Puzder will address sexual harassment in the workplace.


It is unclear whether the issues with hiring an undocumented worker could impede Puzder's confirmation.
Wilbur Ross, Trump's pick for commerce secretary, admitted last month that he recently fired a household employee who could not provide proof of legal status. 
A Senate panel later approved his nomination. He was awaiting confirmation by the full Senate.
However, previous presidential appointees have run into problems over immigrant labor - including two former nominees under Republican President George W. Bush and a previous nominee under Democratic President Bill Clinton. 
All three of those nominees withdrew their names for consideration after the news came to light.
 (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; additional reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn and Jonathan Oatis)
















Next In 
 Politics
 
















Trump expected to revoke rules on transgender bathrooms - draft document


Republican President Donald Trump's administration was expected to revoke landmark guidelines issued to public schools in defense of transgender student rights, according to a draft document seen on Wednesday by Reuters.
















Republicans battle over taxes in Kansas, other states


The Kansas House on Wednesday overrode Republican Governor Sam Brownback's veto of a bipartisan bill aimed at filling holes in the state's leaky budget by rolling back tax cuts he had championed.
















Trump issues first public condemnation of anti-Semitic incidents


WASHINGTON U.S. President Donald Trump delivered his first public condemnation of anti-Semitic incidents in the United States on Tuesday after a new spate of bomb threats to Jewish community centers around the country and vandalism in a Jewish cemetery.





























MORE FROM 
REUTERS




















Sponsored 
Content












From Around the 
Web
Promoted by Revcontent























                                Trending 
Stories


















Pictures


















Photos of the Day









                                Sponsored 
Topics










X








Follow Reuters: 




Follow Us On Twitter


Follow Us On Facebook


Follow Us On RSS


Follow Us On Instagram


Follow Us On YouTube


Follow Us On LinkedIn


Subscribe: 


Feeds
 | 
Newsletters
 | 
Podcasts
 | 
Apps
 






Reuters News Agency
 | 
Brand Attribution Guidelines
  | 
Careers


Reuters is the news and media division of 
Thomson Reuters
. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:








Eikon


Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface 
        










Elektron


Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management 
      










World-Check


Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks 
      










Westlaw


Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology   
      










ONESOURCE


The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
      










CHECKPOINT


The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals 
      








 All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. 
See here for a complete list
 of exchanges and delays.










Site Feedback


Corrections


Advertising Guidelines


Cookies


Terms of Use


Privacy Policy














