 














































Skip to main content










Frontpage Mag







        "
Inside Every Progressive 
Is A Totalitarian Screaming To Get Out"
        



        @horowitz39, David Horowitz












Main Menu




FPM


The Point


Authors


Store


David Horowitz


Who We Are


Donate


DH TV


Mailing List




Search form




Search 


























 
Trump Wins, Teachers Unions Lose
: Betsy DeVos Confirmed (VIDEO)
 







    February 7, 2017  




Daniel Greenfield
 




  
 










 




 
 
 	It came all the way down to the wire. The unions and their pet politicians threw everything they had into the fight. But then Pence broke the tie. Senator Sessions was also available to cast his vote.
 
 	The betrayal by Murkowski and Collins, who put the unions ahead of America's children, didn't help. But there is no doubt that the politicians who voted against DeVos will come calling on the unions when election time comes around. And that the money used to pay the politicians who did their job fighting to prevent school choice will come out of the pockets of taxpayers and out of education budgets.
 
 	Effectively we have politicians claiming to care about children who are soliciting donations at their expense. But that's the usual way that the left does things.
 










 






 	The controversy over DeVos though does show how the unions once again dominate Dem politics. In past years we had seen increased openness among Democrats to charter schools and other common sense educational reform options. But that openness did not last. The unions and their radical left wing allies did everything possible to destroy progressive reform advocates.
 
 	And they got their way.
 
 	Policies that even Obama once backed have been thoroughly demonized. But that is true of a whole range of positions. And it shows all too well the descent into extremism on the left.
 
 	But what is important now is that the Department of Education be de-radicalized. That means taking on a lot of the Obama era Dear Colleague letters which pushed schools into adopting abusive, dangerous and unreasonable policies. We need education reform. But reform also begins with ending the abuses of the system.
 




 
Share
 


















 


        About 
Daniel Greenfield
 



	Daniel Greenfield, a Shillman Journalism Fellow at the Freedom Center, is a New York writer focusing on radical Islam.


Read More
 
















 










View the discussion thread.






















 










The Point






A Daily Blog By Shillman Journalism Fellow 
Daniel Greenfield










 


Robert Reich 
Blames 
Trump
 for 
Muslim Sweden Riots
 






 


Muslim Congress 
Staffers
 
in 
Hacking Case Took $100K 
from Iran-Linked 
Fugitive
 






 


Keith Ellison Blocks Jewish Journalist 
on 
Twitter 
After Accusations of
 Anti-Semitism
 






 


The
 Anne Frank Center
 for
 Mutual Respect 
Has Nothing To Do With
 Anne Frank
 






 


The 
Muslim Congress IT Staffers Case 
Gets Weirder  
 




















 










TruthRevolt.org




























 


























A project of the
 
David Horowitz Freedom Center


Donate Now
























David Horowitz Freedom Center
 






Daniel Greenfield: HOW REPUBLICANS CAN WIN BACK CONSERVATIVES
 




Daniel Greenfield: TRAITOR SENATORS TOOK MONEY FROM IRAN LOBBY, BACK IRAN NUKES
 




Matthew Vadum: Leaders of the Lynch Mob
 


















Discover the Networks
 






The Indivisible Team Plans to Use Aggressive Tactics to Destroy Trump's Presidency
 




"Indivisible": Aiming to Convince Young Americans to Support Big Government
 




Honor The Earth: Trashing Capitalism in the Name of the Environment
 




Winona LaDuke: Protecting "Mother Earth" with Identity Politics
 




All Back Issues of Heterodoxy Magazine (Under "In Depth" on right side)
 


















Stop The Jihad On Campus
 






Hold a Teach-In to Stop the Jihad on Campus
 




Islamophobia: Thought Crime of the Totalitarian Future
 




The BDS Movement FactSheet
 


















Glazov Gang
 






Choudary, Spencer and Jasser Battle It Out On “Jihad in Chattanooga”
 




Ex-Muslim Mona Walter: Rescuing Muslims from Islam 
 




Deport the Abdulazeez Family
 




Muslim Activist Isa Hodge vs. Ex-Imam Mark Christian on Jihad in Chattanooga 
 


















Jihad Watch
 






Former Archbishop of Canterbury warns against ‘Muslim mass immigration to Europe’
 




Fighting Islamization and antisemitism in America
 




Spain warns of jihadist infiltration threat with ‘avalanche’ of refugees
 


















Islam Translated
 






Islamic Supremacism: The True Source of Muslim ‘Grievances’
 




‘Whoever Disbelieves, Strike Off His Head’: Muslim Persecution of Christians, February 2015
 




















30,474 Likes


7,035 Followers


Join the Mailing List


FrontpageMag RSS


The Point RSS






About


Contact


Site Search


Send a Tip


© Copyright 2017, FrontPageMag.com
 Back to Top










