































































































































Log In or Sign Up








Log In






Sign Up







































                
              Topics
              
                









                
              Trending
              
              







            more
            

























          Topics
          
            










Culture






Policy & Politics






World






Business & Finance






Technology










Science & Health






Identities






Energy & Environment






Explainers






Video










First Person






Podcasts






The Big Idea






New Money













            Trending
            
          




✕


















































Neo-monarchist blogger denies he's chatting with Steve Bannon





  
    Updated by

    


Dylan Matthews
@dylanmatt





        Feb  7, 2017, 12:50pm EST
      

















          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        






























Curtis Yarvin/Mencius Moldbug speaks on 
“How to Reboot the US government.”
 


YouTube








He may not have the name recognition of a Milo Yiannopoulos, but Mencius Moldbug is arguably just as important a figure in the 
emergence of the self-described alt-right
.


Moldbug — the pen name of Curtis Yarvin, a Silicon Valley programmer — launched his blog, 
Unqualified Reservations
, in 2007, and on it offered a full-throated, passionate 
rejection of democracy
, decrying it as an “ineffective and destructive system of government.” In its place, he argued for a kind of corporatist dictatorship (or neo-monarchy, if you prefer) that he called 
"formalism"
 or 
"neocameralism
,” a reference to "cameralism," the philosophy of government embraced by Frederick the Great of Prussia.


He is also a quite vocal bigot. “Although I am not a white nationalist, I am not exactly allergic to the stuff,” 
he once wrote
. “I believe white nationalism is a very ineffective political device for solving the very real problems about which it complains." He is 
sympathetic to arguments for black racial inferiority
, and has argued that views like these — support for racist governments, opposition to black liberation movements, etc. — are being viciously suppressed by liberal elites in the US, elites like Ivy League schools, the New York Times, and Hollywood, which he collectively refers to as "the Cathedral.”


Moldbug wound up as the leading theorist of an intellectual current known as neo-reaction (NRx) or the “dark enlightenment,” which is now the highbrow current of the alt-right, existing alongside vocal white nationalists like Richard Spencer or 
Jared Taylor
 and 4chan provocateurs like 
Yiannopoulos
.
 










Yarvin is not especially vocal or active these days; he largely stopped posting on Unqualified Reservations in 2013. Instead, he’s focused on his startup, 
Urbit
, which is 
reportedly backed
 by Trump adviser and billionaire venture capitalist Peter Thiel and by Balaji Srinivasan, another Silicon Valley venture capitalist whom Trump considered as a possible 
FDA commissioner
.


So it was quite interesting when 
Politico’s Eliana Johnson and Eli Stokols
 reported on Tuesday that Moldbug was in contact with White House chief strategist Steve Bannon:


Moldbug, who does not do interviews and could not be reached for this story, has reportedly opened up a line to the White House, communicating with Bannon and his aides through an intermediary, according to a source. 
 










This struck me as odd; Moldbug is not really hard to reach. So I reached out and asked him if he was indeed in contact with Bannon. He strenuously denied it:


The idea that I'm "communicating" with Steve Bannon through an "intermediary" is preposterous. I have never met Steve Bannon or communicated with him, directly or indirectly. You might as well accuse the Obama administration of being run by a schizophrenic homeless person in Dupont Circle, because he tapes his mimeographed screeds to light poles where Valerie Jarrett can read them.


Yarvin told me he had told the Politico reporters as much too, and sure enough, Johnson and Stokols updated their story to add, “Yarvin said he has never spoken with Bannon.”


Of course, this is Yarvin/Moldbug’s word against that of Politico’s source; presumably Bannon wouldn’t like it made public if he 
were
 talking to Yarvin, so it’s not impossible that Yarvin is covering for him. Then again, Bannon 
employed
 Milo Yiannopoulos when he ran Breitbart, and oversaw that site while it maintained an active subsection devoted to “black crime.” Molbuggian ideas are pretty out there, but not obviously more outrageous than the kind of racist nonsense Bannon has himself repeatedly and publicly embraced.


But for whatever it’s worth, the godfather of the “dark enlightenment” is on the record as saying that he’s not whispering into the ear of the president’s most trusted adviser. Reassured?










Was this article helpful?








Awesome, share it:











          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        
















Help us improve. Give us your feedback:




Your email address:


























In this Storystream


Dylan's Xanga






Republicans can't agree on Obamacare, and it's grinding Congress to a halt






Neo-monarchist blogger denies he's chatting with Steve Bannon






I read Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch's book. It's very revealing.







    View all 
775
 stories
  


















Next Up In


Policy & Politics








A Russian newspaper editor explains how Putin made Trump his puppet






Bill Maher gave Milo Yiannopoulos a megaphone. Now he's claiming credit for Milo’s fall.






Republican lawmakers are getting an earful from their home districts






How the DNC chair election works






Why the stock market loves Donald Trump






What a 19th-century French aristocrat can teach us about freedom





































































      
        
          Most Read
        
      
    






















Donald Trump is dangerous when he’s losing






















Obama's White House photographer is now America's foremost purveyor of anti-Trump Instagram shade






















The fall of Milo Yiannopoulos, explained



























  This Article has a component height of 14. The sidebar size is medium.







































The Latest
























A Russian newspaper editor explains how Putin made Trump his puppet



  
    by

    


Sean Illing
@seanilling








“They consider him a stupid, unstrategic politician.”




























NASA has discovered 7 Earth-like planets orbiting a star just 40 light-years away



  
    by

    


Brian Resnick
@B_resnick








This tiny star has 7 planets that potentially could be suitable for life.




























Why Milo Yiannopoulos’s canceled book deal isn’t a moral win for conservative publishing



  
    by

    


Constance Grady
@constancegrady








Yiannopoulos has demonstrated exactly where conservative publishing draws its line.




























This year’s Oscars Best Picture winner is … (La La Land, probably)



  
    by

    


Todd VanDerWerff
@tvoti








Check out our predictions in the Picture, Directing, and Screenplay categories.




























A viral blog post is forcing Uber to address its sexism problem



  
    by

    


Timothy B. Lee








CEO Travis Kalanick is promising to change Uber’s culture, but it won’t be easy.




























Bill Maher gave Milo Yiannopoulos a megaphone. Now he's claiming credit for Milo’s fall.



  
    by

    


German Lopez
@germanrlopez








The liberal TV host might be taking credit, but he had nothing to do with it.






































































Chorus










Terms of Use


Privacy Policy


Communications Preferences






Contact


Send Us a Tip


Community Guidelines


Masthead







  All Systems Operational
  
Check out our status page for more details.










Vox Media


Advertise with us


Jobs @ Vox Media

      
      © 2017 
Vox Media
, Inc. All Rights Reserved
      
      
    























          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        




























