



 


























































































Home


Archives


Ed Morrissey Show


Newsletters







		 
	


















NYT: Bannon, Trump trying to take on the Pope




posted at 12:01 pm on February 7, 2017 by Ed Morrissey












Share on Facebook
                


1
























1
 SHARES






Has Pope Francis become a “lonelier figure” lately, and has Stephen Bannon positioned Donald Trump to supplant the pontiff as the primary 
Fidei Defensor
? The New York Times’ Jason Horowitz has 
an intriguing backgrounder on Bannon
 and his at-times outspoken conservative beliefs in Catholicism, but the headline promises a little more than it delivers. It asserts that Bannon will “carry battles” to the Vatican, but offers little evidence that those issues are on Bannon’s plate, let alone Trump’s:


While Mr. Trump, a twice-divorced president who has boasted of groping women, may seem an unlikely ally of traditionalists in the Vatican, many of them regard his election and the ascendance of Mr. Bannon as potentially game-changing breakthroughs.


Just as Mr. Bannon has connected with far-right parties threatening to topple governments throughout Western Europe, he has also made common cause with elements in the Roman Catholic Church who oppose the direction Francis is taking them. Many share Mr. Bannon’s suspicion of Pope Francis as a dangerously misguided, and probably socialist, pontiff.


Until now, Francis has marginalized or demoted the traditionalists, notably Cardinal Burke, carrying out an inclusive agenda on migration, climate change and poverty that has made the pope a figure of unmatched global popularity, especially among liberals. Yet in a newly turbulent world, Francis is suddenly a lonelier figure. Where once Francis had a powerful ally in the White House in Barack Obama, now there is Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon, this new president’s ideological guru.


I’ve only talked with Bannon a few times at best, and Catholicism wasn’t among the topics, although it might be interesting to have that discussion with him. Horowitz does a good job of laying out Bannon’s public positions on the direction of the Catholic Church, including a brief quote from almost a year ago criticizing Pope Francis for ignoring the fears of Europeans over mass migration from the Middle East, and wondered whether the pontiff had become too much of an elitist to comprehend the shifting political winds. That was certainly a trend Bannon understood when he joined Team Trump, better than many others.


However, there’s not much in Horowitz’ otherwise intriguing backgrounder to suggest that Bannon is making a fight with the Vatican one of the top priorities of the new administration, or even a goal at all. Most of the article focuses on Bannon’s alliance with Cardinal Raymond Burke, a leader of conservative Catholicism who has recently been implicitly rebuked by Francis in the Knights of Malta crisis, but all of that dates back to 2014 — well before Bannon joined Trump.


The tenor of the article also suggests that Bannon is on the extreme end of conservative within Catholicism, but that’s hardly the case, at least from the evidence presented here. There are strains that are much more conservative, especially the 
sedevacantists
 who reject all popes since 1958, and the SSPX sect with which Francis is negotiating a reconciliation. Bannon’s Burke-wing conservatism is a rather mainstream version that has always been in tension with the more liberal-progressive wing of Catholicism, both here and abroad. That also emerged during the 2014 Extraordinary Synod on the Family, but the Vatican remained standing nonetheless.


Besides, Bannon would almost certainly understand that injecting the Trump administration into a philosophical and theological debate within the church would be a mistake. His previous comments on this came when Bannon was a New Media activist, which is a legitimate platform for that kind of commentary and calls for action within the church. Government is an entirely different platform, one that would generate a lot of concern over the intrusion of American politicians into church business. Apart from that, Bannon and Trump will also have their hands full enough in shifting 
American
 policy rather than getting involved in the internal politics of the Vatican and the interpretation of Catholic doctrine.


We still don’t know who Trump will pick for the Vatican ambassador post, but the two names floated out over the last couple of weeks don’t sound like Team Trump is looking to pick a fight with the Pope, at least not in the Francis-Burke context. Both Callista Gingrich and Bill Simon come from the donor-elite class that would offer the traditional kind of diplomatic contact that relies on presidential access, a sign of a friendly-but-lower-priority view of the Washington-Vatican relationship that hardly hints at the motives suggested by the NYT’s Horowitz. They aren’t the kind of academics-activists one would need to credibly address the doctrinal debates, let alone have standing to insert themselves into those as American envoys, even if that were appropriate. What Trump needs from an ambassador is an envoy who has kept up with all of these issues and has some understanding of the tensions and the players, who can then judge those winds to present American policy best to the Vatican and can also best represent the administration to 70 million American Catholics.


Anything’s possible, of course, and we’ll know more as we see the diplomatic team assigned to the US embassy in Rome (Barack Obama moved it out of the Vatican in 2015). For now, though, Horowitz’s article should be read as a good basis for later analysis, or at least to get a little better picture of Bannon and his approach to the world.


Update
: I originally saw this story via Jake Tapper, and 
he reminded me
 of this moment from a year ago when 
Trump pushed back at Pope Francis
 over Trump’s policies on immigration, especially the wall. That certainly got heated, but both sides almost immediately de-escalated the war of words shortly thereafter. That skirmish took place on the battlefield of American politics, not Catholic theology and practice. None of my analysis above is intended to suggest that Trump won’t respond when criticized — in fact, that’s a dependable pattern — but that Team Trump isn’t likely to get involved in Vatican politics or take Pope Francis into account except when it suits them. That’s not a novelty in American presidential politics, either.










Share on Facebook
                


1
























1
 SHARES






 

						Tags: 
Cardinal Burke
, 
Catholic Church
, 
Donald Trump
, 
Pope Francis
, 
Stephen K. Bannon
, 
Vatican
 














Related Posts:
 


New White House memo will “unshackle” DHS and Border Patrol agents






Poll: Americans oppose sanctuary cities, support Trump’s immigration agenda






Democrats: Hey, how about removing Trump via the 25th Amendment?








Breaking on Hot Air




Too bad to check: California secession movement leader lives in … Russia?


The ethical quandaries of genetic editing


WaPo introduces new emo slogan: “Democracy Dies in Darkness”


























Blowback










 




 
























































 




 
Too bad to check: California secession movement leader lives in … Russia?








 
The ethical quandaries of genetic editing








 
WaPo introduces new emo slogan: “Democracy Dies in Darkness”








 
Trudeau: No, we won’t be stopping illegal border crossings. Why do you ask?








 
Gillibrand: Of course Neil Gorsuch will get confirmed








Join Ed and Allahpundit on Facebook!










































Hot Links






Right Channels




Ace of Spades HQ


Allergic2Bull


Andrew Malcolm


BigGovernment.com


Daily Caller


Defining Ideas


Doug Powers


Doug Ross @ Journal


Election Results


ElectionProjection


Evan Coyne Maloney


Fausta's Blog


Jeff Dunetz


La Shawn Barber’s Corner


Le·gal In·sur·rec·tion


Liberty Unyielding


Mark Steyn


Matt Lewis


Michelle Malkin


Newsbusters


NRA News


Patterico


Poll Tracker


Power Line


Pundit & Pundette


Real Clear Politics


Ricochet


Right Wing News


Salena Zito


Second Amendment


The Other McCain


The Shark Tank


The Sundries Shack


Tip Sheet Blog


Townhall


U.S. Constitution






Left Channels




BloggingHeads TV






War on Terror




Blogging the Qur’an


Counterterrorism Blog


Jihad Watch


MEMRI TV


Michael Yon


NEFA Foundation


Zombie






Audio podcasters




Ashbrook podcasts


Blogtalkradio


Instapundit










Cartoons/Satire




Conservative eCards


Day by Day


Mallard Fillmore


Michael Ramirez Cartoons


Political Cartoons






Entertainment




Happy Slip


John Hanlon Reviews






Industry/Internet TV




Ed Driscoll


Johnny Dollar


Popehat


Roger L. Simon






Hangouts




Drudge Report


Linkiest


Lucianne


Memeorandum


Twitchy






Talkers




Hugh Hewitt


KFI – Los Angeles


Kirby Wilbur


Lars Larson


Laura Ingraham


Mark Levin


Michael Graham


Michael Smerconish


Mike Gallagher


Radio Vice Online


Roger Hedgecock


Rush Limbaugh


Sean Hannity


Tammy Bruce


Tony Katz






Hot Air Affiliates




Brian Maloney


Going Red


Investigative Project


Jawa Report


Suitably Flip


































Feeds




 
Subscribe in a reader










Recent Tags




Donald Trump
trump
Russia
national security advisor
flynn
Hillary Clinton
Reince Priebus
assassination
China
North Korea
Mike Pence
bannon
media
John Bolton
enemy
ISIS
Budget
comey
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Barack Obama
John McCain
impeachment
Michael Flynn
Fox News
refugees
CalExit
California
referendum
Secession
Yes California
ethics
evolution
genetics
science
darkness
democracy
slogan
WaPo
Washington Post
woodward
border
Canada
illegal immigrants
Justin Trudeau
confirmation
Harry Reid
Kirsten Gillibrand
neil gorsuch
nuclear option
Supreme Court
 






































© 2006-2017 Hot Air | Designed by 
The Blog Studio
 | 
Terms of Use
 | 
Privacy Policy
 | 
About
 | 
Advertise
 | 
Mobile Site














