Breaking News
CNN
Toggle Search
Search
45
Congress
Security
The Nine
Trumpmerica
CNN.com
Steve Bannon in 2010: Democrats have a 'plantation mentality' towards African-Americans 
By Andrew Kaczynski, CNN
Updated 5:27 PM ET, Mon February 6, 2017 
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
JUST WATCHED
The controversial work of Trump's chief strategist 
Replay
More Videos ...
MUST WATCH
The controversial work of Trump's chief strategist 
 
02:30
Story highlights
Bannon: "The elitist, liberal, progressives have a plantation mentality that they don't think African Americans should be out of government control." 
The former Breitbart executive has emerged as one the most influential advisers inside Trump's White House.
 (CNN)
Donald Trump's chief strategist, Steve Bannon, said during a 2010 
webinar
 for Tea Party activists that liberal Democrats have a "plantation mentality" towards African Americans to keep them under government control. 
Bannon, the former Breitbart executive who has now emerged as one the most influential advisers inside Trump's White House, described a "victimology" among African Americans created by the welfare state, which caused them to attack black conservatives. 
After listing off several prominent black conservatives, Bannon said, "These people are heroes. They take an incredible, incredible amount of grief because the welfare state has built in this victimology. And the elitist, liberal, progressives have a plantation mentality that they don't think African Americans should be out of government control." 
A spokesperson for the Trump administration did not return a request for comment. 
Bannon, one of the co-founders of the National Tea Party Federation, is not the first to invoke the history of slavery in the United States to attack the relationship between the Democratic Party and black voters. Former Republican presidential candidate
 Herman Cain
 and former congressman 
Allen West
--both prominent black conservatives--have also referred to the Democratic Party as a "plantation." 
Read More
Bannon added in the webinar that Tea Party activists have to support black conservatives. 
"The Democratic progressive party cannot rule if they don't get 90% of the black vote. If we cut into the black vote, if we make it 80/20, we can win a hundred congressional seats this time," Bannon said. 
Earlier in the program, Bannon said conservative women and minorities are attacked by liberals because they pose a threat to their narrative about conservatives. 
"If you think the women are vilified, if you think Sarah Palin, and Michele Bachmann, and Michelle Malkin, all of these great women in the tea party movement are absolutely vilified because they are an existential threat to progressive narrative, you haven't seen anything by how they viciously attack our black and African American conservatives," he said. 
Content by LendingTree
Rates now at 3.2% APR (15 Yr Fixed). Do you qualify?
 
Fastest way to pay off $10,000 in credit card debt
 
Can you save on your mortgage?
 
The amazing VA benefits not enough vets are claiming
 
Reverse Mortgages: Worth the risk?
 
Paid Partner Content
10 cards charging 0% interest until 2018
 NextAdvisor
 
Getting ready to sell? Find out what your home is worth now
 Trulia
 
Transferring credit card balances to a 21-month 0% APR is ingenious
 NextAdvisor
 
The next generation of Big Bang timepieces from Hublot is here
 Wallpaper
 
Best balance transfer cards for 2017
 NextAdvisor
 
Sections
45
Congress
Security
The Nine
Trumpmerica
Follow us
CNN.com
© 2017 Cable News Network. 
Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.
 All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 
Terms of service
 | 
Privacy guidelines
