









































































































Close




























Menu






























play


pause








Update Required

                                                    To play the media you will need to either update your browser to a recent version or update your 
Flash plugin
.
                                                










WHYY




























Home


Trump Impact


The Latest


Speak Easy


Health+Science




Arts+Culture


Politics


Education


Opinion & Essays


Blogs


New Jersey


Delaware




Keystone Crossroads


PlanPhilly


The Remix


Veterans Coming Home


Watershed






Follow on facebook


Follow on Twitter


Follow on YouTube


RSS feed


NewsWorks on iTunes






 


































Support provided by






















February 7, 2017


National Interest
 



                        The Bowling Green Massacre and many more!                    








































A social media meme imagines a fictional memorial marker for the 'Bowling Green Massacre,' a fictional event Donald Trump advisor Kellyanne Conway referred to in an MSNBC interview.


 




























National Interest 



                                                A blog by 
Dick Polman






About 


Follow 


Contact 




About Dick Polman
As a kid, Dick Polman got hooked on journalism when a teacher defined it as "finding things out and telling people." Plus, he made up his own newspaper and forced his younger brother to read it.


After that, it was steady sailing: college newspaper editor (George Washington University), general assignment/cop/politics reporter (the 
New London Day
), alternative newspaper editor (the 
Hartford Advocate
), metro columnist (the 
Hartford Courant
), feature writer/ Sunday magazine writer/ political reporter/ political columnist (the 
Philadelphia Inquirer)
.


Dick has covered or chronicled every presidential campaign since 1988, and has blogged on politics five days a week since 2006. His Newsworks "National Interest" blog debuted in 2011. A Center City Philadelphia resident, he's also on the full-time faculty at the University of Pennsylvania, as "writer in residence." He has been a frequent guest on C-SPAN, CNN, MSNBC, the BBC and various NPR shows — most notably Philadelphia's "Radio Times" on WHYY-FM.


 
























Facebook














Twitter












Mail










More














I was startled to learn yesterday, from our Leader, that the media doesn't report on terrorist attacks. This I did not know! All that copious coverage we've seen and heard with our eyes and ears? Never happened.


Trump said yesterday, "It's gotten to the point where it's not even being reported, and in many cases the very, very dishonest press doesn't want to report it," and that's because "they have their reasons." He didn't name the "reasons," though he seemed to be insinuating that the media has covered up attacks because it's pro-terrorist. Or something like that.


Anyway, the Leader's regime later released a 
list
 of 78 terrorist attacks that the media has supposedly ignored, and it's actually fun to read, because it includes attacks that the media 
copiously covered
 — like Paris, Brussels, Nice, Orlando, Sydney, and "San Bernadino" (the regime cares so much about San Bernardino that it couldn't be bothered to spell the city's name correctly). Alas, the regime provided no evidence that the media has deliberately covered anything up.


But wait — I have breaking news!


The Leader's regime has secretly created a supplemental list of incidents ignored by the media. The regime has already placed this list in the archives of Trump University, for the benefit of future scholars, but I have exclusively obtained a copy. Its Trumpian tone and content have been assidiously preserved. I wish to thank the Trump U. leakers who typed it into a PDF, having translated it from the original crayon:


The Bowling Green Massacre


Even though the pond scum media is finally aware that this bloodbath definitely occurred, the full story has yet to be told. The truth is that the death toll of dozens — or many many thousands — would've been much higher if not for the heroic intervention of Russian commandos under the leadership of that nation's Man of Respect. In his honor, we will soon announce a National Celebration of Patriotic Devotion. Bowling Green will host a military parade and clear land for the construction of Putin Park.


The NASCAR Daytona 500 Day of Disaster


The excrement press refused to cover this trauma, which occurred in one of the recent years, we hear, when bad hombres poured onto stock car stadium property. Personally led by Santa Anna, the Mexican military general from the Alamo — an amazing guy, unbelievable, he's being recognized more and more — these hordes tied Mexican flags to the antennaes of every single American-made pickup truck in the parking lot. That wasn't very white of them. Mexico will pay for the cleanup costs, which is what people are saying.


The Mom and Pop Diner Decimation


The slithering insect press didn't want to cover this either, which happened somewhere in the hardworking Rustbelt when a squad of smug elitists, professionally paid by someone, invaded this restaurant on a church Sunday, and announced that its real Americans would no longer be free to eat ham, bacon, or home fries. All customers were given soy milk and whole grain salads with hazelnuts. One patriotic trucker, who rightly complained that the food "tastes like ass," was forced to subscribe to the failing New York Times. Date and location of the diner disaster to be determined.


The Slaughter in Suburbia


The lowest creatures on earth refused to report this outrage, which we hear occurred somewhere just two nights ago. It hasn't been decided yet whether it was perpetrated by illegals from California, refugees from Australia, Muslims from travel-ban countries, or Meryl Streep. But it has been confirmed by rumor that certain people broke into a string of suburban McMansions and forced inhabitants to turn off the Super Bowl and instead watch hours and hours of British twits on PBS. We hear that the arrested thugs were quickly freed by so-called judges. In response, we will suspend the judiciary until we know what the hell is going on.


Some alleged Muslim thing


The lying media claims that 
something bad
 happened up in Canada somewhere. We can't confirm that. The Leader does not comment on fake news.


—


Follow me on Twitter, 
@dickpolman1
, and on 
Facebook
.


Unfortunately, we may need to point out that the above blog post is satire.
 


















Support provided by




















Subscribe now to receive top stories from WHYY News via email




Email Address 










WHYY News (Daily)












 




 
 












Support provided by






















More from National Interest




 
National Interest
Trump finally says something sympathetic about Jewish people
 
National Interest
John McCain is getting mavericky again
 
National Interest
Don the Con's Thomas Jefferson hustle
 
National Interest
How long will the 'soft' Trumpkins stay loyal?
 
National Interest
Drip, drip, drip: Trump leaks hypocritical tears
 
National Interest
Republican Congress is a 'paralyzed force, gesture without motion'
 
National Interest
The first casualty of the Trump national security scandal
 
National Interest
Trump and Russia: The plot thickens and sickens
 
National Interest
Trump versus 'the fundamental structure of our constitutional democracy'
 
National Interest
Trump era capitalism: Brands take a stand






















About Us


Advertise


Become a Member


Contact Us


Discussion Rules


Events Calendar


How We're Funded


Jobs at NewsWorks


Privacy Statement


Podcasts


RSS Feeds


Terms of Service


Newsletters






Log In/Out
 




















Latest Newscast (Audio)


Listen to WHYY(Audio)


Watch WHYY (Video)














partners












theArtblog.org


Delaware Today


Azavea


Coastal Point


Content Delaware


Committee of Seventy


DVAEYC


The Fallser


 Generocity.org


GermantownBeat


G-town Radio


LaSalle University 


Leadership Philadelphia


NBC10 Philadelphia


NewCORE


NJ Spotlight


Penn Project for Civic Engagement


Philadelphia Business Journal


Philadelphia Daily News


Philadelphia Weekly


The Philadelphia Public School Notebook


PhilaPlace.org


PlanPhilly.com


Technically Philly


Temple Multimedia Urban Reporting Lab


WURD Radio


Encyclopedia of Greater Philadelphia
















 
More


Facebook


Twitter


Mail


Comment
 






© WHYY/NewsWorks 2017








Your browser is out-of-date!


Some features of this website (and others) may not work correctly with Internet Explorer 8 and below. Click below and we'll show you your upgrade options (they're free). -your friends at NewsWorks. 
Update my browser now


×


