































































































































FavTrends








Latest Celebrity news, Entertainment news, Trending Fashion, Lifestyle & health tips










































Ads




























Facebook


































































































































































Tuesday, 7 February 2017

















Rosie O'Donnell says she's happy to play Trump's controversial strategist Steve Bannon on 'SNL'













For now the Grim Reaper plays Steve Bannon on &#034;Saturday Night Live,&#034; but people are calling for President Trump&#039;s enemy Rosie O&#039;Donnell to take the role.


Donald Trump’s longtime enemy and 
a target of his in the 2016 presidential debates
, Rosie O'Donnell, just announced via Twitter that she is available to play the role of mysterious and highly controversial 
Trump strategist
 Steve Bannon on “Saturday Night Live.”


People on social media suggested O'Donnell for the role, and she responded enthusiastically.


For now the Grim Reaper plays Steve Bannon on "SNL," in a dark joke about the strategist, though we don’t know who’s under the costume. In the next sketch starring Alec Baldwin as Donald Trump — and hopefully Melissa McCarthy as press secretary Sean Spicer, given her hilarious performance over the weekend — the Grim Reaper could show up and remove the mask, revealing O’Donnell.


On Sunday morning, O’Donnell sang McCarthy’s praises after seeing her performance as Spicer.


If this whole thing plays out, it would not be surprising to see 
angry tweets
 about it from Trump’s personal Twitter account.


The feud between the two 
started in 2006
 when O’Donnell criticized Trump on “The View,” and the two tweet criticisms of each other often. Trump has called O’Donnell "a real loser" and "a woman out of control."





from pulse.ng - Nigeria's entertainment & lifestyle platform online http://ift.tt/2kodV4y

via 
IFTTT








































































No comments:
















Post a Comment






































Newer Post






Older Post




Home









Subscribe to:

Post Comments (Atom)


































































Subscribe and Get Latest Favtrends




Enter your email address:
Delivered by 
FeedBurner
























Subscribe




























Popular Posts










The world's most-advanced aircraft carrier is one step closer to completion


 The USS Gerald R. Ford will head out to sea for builders trials next month in a critical test before the US Navy intends to commission the ...












Photos: Aisha Buhari returns to Nigeria from Saudi Arabia after performing lesser hajj


 Wife of President Buhari, Aisha Buhari, returned to Nigeria from Saudi Arabia this afternoon after performing the lesser Hajj (Umrah).     ...












In Greece: 70,000 being evacuated as WWII bomb defused


 Greek authorities on Saturday began evacuating some 70,000 people in the city of Thessaloniki ahead of an operation to defuse a bomb from W...












Apple made a huge mistake when it decided not to take on Microsoft's Xbox and Sony's Playstation (AAPL)


 The Apple TV is one of Apple&#039;s most perplexing products.  Bloomberg ace Mark Gurman wrote  on Thursday about the current Apple TV&...












The F-35 just dominated its latest test — and now it may finally be ready for prime time


 “I flew a mission the other day where our four-ship formation of F-35As destroyed five surface-to-air threats in a 15-minute period without...












Venezuela: Country bans Spanish-language CNN for Iraq report


 The state National Telecommunications Commission ordered &#034;the immediate suspension of broadcasts by the news channel CNN in Spanis...












Putin: President critic leaves Russia for treatment after 'poisoning'


 A Russian opposition politician who fell into a coma due to poisoning this month has left the country for treatment abroad after his condit...












Nigerian Writers Competition: 2017 Nigeria LNG (NLNG) Prize for Literature call for Entries


 The Nigeria Prize for Literature endowed by Nigeria LNG (NLNG) Limited to honour the author of the best book by a Nigerian within the last ...












Kim Jong Un: UN Security Council to meet on North Korea missile launch


 The UN Security Council will hold an urgent meeting on Monday on North Korea&#039;s missile launch, the first test since US President D...












Why you shouldn't freak out about the Russian spy ship loitering outside a US Navy base


 &#034;In a time of peace you might say ‘we’re not at war with Russia, so why should show them how we&#039;d jam their equipment?&am...;
































Labels






Apartment Therapy | Saving the world






Beauty - ELLE






Blogs






Breaking Muscle






Celebs






Comedy






Elements of Style Blog






Events






Fashion - ELLE






Gossip






LATEST BREAKING NEWS






Life & Love - ELLE






Liveofofo






Nigerian Celebrity News + Latest Entertainment News






Nigerian Entertainment Today – Nigeria's Top Website for News






Nollywood






North






OMG Gist Today






one room at a time






pulse.ng - Nigeria's entertainment & lifestyle platform online






Scoop and Games






Videos






Vogue






Weddings


























Live feed




Live Traffic Stats
























Blog Archive










Blog Archive


February (11797)


January (1525)


December (801)


November (416)






























Histats




































Internal ADS Below Title (yes/no)


























Pages






Home


























Inner Post Ads


























Stats




RadarURL
























Followers








































Subscribe




























Stat Counter












































Follow on Facebook
































About




































top












































































Statcounter

























































Powered by 
Blogger
.







































































