































































report this ad








 /  
	
Rob Beschizza
 /
	
7:44 am Mon



		 Feb 6, 2017 	 






Stephen Bannon fooled Trump into signing executive order that gave him national security role






 


















From the Boing Boing Shop
 







                See all deals            
























Popular Posts










Follow Us


Twitter
 /
			 
Facebook
 /
			  
RSS










Here's an interesting suspicion: Trump is only marginally literate, and hates reading so much he deals with even complex correspondence by talking it out and trusting that whatever is put in from of him at the conclusion is an accurate reflection of the discussion. This strategy has come into contact with one Stephen K. Bannon, and 
Bannon has already done well by it.


President Trump was reportedly not fully briefed on the executive order he signed that allowed his chief strategist Steve Bannon a seat at the meetings of the country’s top national security efforts. ...Trump was frustrated over the executive order and reportedly demanded to be looped in on the executive orders earlier in the drafting process. According to the Times, Trump demanded that his chief of staff Reince Priebus to come up with a fundamental approach to executive orders.



This came from the 
New York Times
, which inexplicably 
buried the news deep inside a rambling story about White House messaging strategy
.







... But for the moment, Mr. Bannon remains the president’s dominant adviser, despite Mr. Trump’s anger that he was not fully briefed on details of the executive order he signed giving his chief strategist a seat on the National Security Council, a greater source of frustration to the president than the fallout from the travel ban.



Which is to say that two weeks into the administration, there is already a striking instance of Bannon exercising power over Trump, implying serious questions about whether the latter has the intelligence and focus to resist being exploited by him and anyone else who can put something under his nose.


However angry Trump may be with Bannon, he's madder with everyone else for noticing how easily fooled he is, ranting on Twitter: "I call my own shots!"








SHARE
 /
		
TWEET
 /
		
194 COMMENTS






bannon
 / 
trump














report this ad














GET THE BOING BOING NEWSLETTER












 




























U.S. Homeland Security staff were unable to access DHS computer network because the security certificates expired




Some employees with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security who work in the Washington, D.C. area and in Philadelphia, PA were unable to access the DHS computer network on Tuesday, reports Reuters, citing “three sources familiar with the matter.”


READ THE REST






Amid Trump's Muslim hate, new Nike ad celebrates 5 female athletes from Arab world




A stunning new ad campaign from Nike “pays homage to Middle Eastern athletes and explores the challenges young Arab women aspiring to a professional sporting career may face,” per Vogue.


READ THE REST






Facebook gave $120,000 to CPAC, half in cash and half in-kind contributions, Daily Beast reports




Why exactly is Facebook helping to fund CPAC, to the tune of about $120,000 in cash and in-kind contributions?


READ THE REST








This luxury bed set is $180 off right now




Having a luxurious bed isn’t just a fairy tale from a catalog; it is a real, affordable possibility with offerings like this Olive+Owen bedroom set. If you’re thinking of doing some “spring cleaning”, this bed set is an easy way to completely upgrade your room in one purchase.This 20-piece collection has all of the expected slumberland elements, […]


READ THE REST






Learn Python and explore the machine learning frontier




Python is immensely popular in the data science world for the same reason it is in most other areas of computing—it has highly readable syntax and is suitable for anything from short scripts to massive web services. One of its most exciting, newest applications, however, is in machine learning. You can dive into this booming […]


READ THE REST






Diversify your resume with lifetime access to over 1,000 courses across 15 professional fields




Learning new skills is a great way to improve your resume and stand out from other candidates. Especially in a workforce in which many job-seekers have a wide variety of qualifications. With lifetime access to Virtual Training Company, you won’t have to choose a specific focus. You can pick up new expertise whenever you deem it […]


READ THE REST














report this ad









					Start the discussion at					

						bbs.boingboing.net
					














Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our 
Terms of Service
.
        
     
Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our 
Privacy Policy
.
       	
		
       
       Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the 
Community Guidelines
.
       
       	
Boing Boing is published under 
a Creative Commons license
 except where otherwise noted.
       	
    








 
Mark Frauenfelder
     	
 
Cory Doctorow
     	
 
David Pescovitz
     	
 
Xeni Jardin
     	
 
Rob Beschizza

     	
Jason Weisberger
Publisher


Ken Snider
Sysadmin


 
About Us


 
Contact Us


 
Advertise


 
Forums


 
Shop


 
Shop Support
















































































