



























































































twitter


Facebook


instagram


youtube


Company


Careers


Contact


Terms


Privacy








































 








Wednesday, February 22
nd
, 2017
































































Setup Menu via Wordpress Dashboard > Appearance > Menus
 












































Home
  » 
Democrats
 
Donald Trump
 
 


Betsy DeVos can’t even correctly name children with disabilities, let alone educate them






Shares




















 




By Tommy Christopher   |





			      			  February 7, 2017			      		
















 
Democrats are fighting hard to resist Donald Trump's 
manifestly unqualified nominee
 to head the Department of Education, Betsy DeVos, and as a parent of two autistic children, I could not agree more. DeVos' demonstrable ignorance on the subject of children with disabilities is so deep that she cannot even correctly identify one of the most well-known such disabilities.
 








C-SPAN




During the Democrats’ 
all-night effort to #HoldTheFloor
 and resist the nomination of Education Secretary-designate Betsy DeVos, Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) took to the floor to raise concerns about DeVos on the subject of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). At her confirmation hearing, DeVos revealed that she 
did not even know
 this was a federal law, and Kaine zeroed in on her attempt to repair that damage:




http://shareblue.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Kaine-DeVos-letter.mp4


Another member of our committee who is supporting Mrs. DeVos, Senator Isakson of Georgia, also found it of concern enough that he had a written exchange with her, wrote her a letter, and asked her some questions about, you know, ‘Do you really understand what the IDEA is?’


And she wrote a letter back, which I’ve had the opportunity to review. But I still don’t believe that the letter that she wrote demonstrates a real understanding for this issue of the rights of kids with disabilities. And this is a really important point. Some of the states that have voucher programs — we don’t have these programs in Virginia for the reasons I’ve described, but there are states that do — Indiana, Florida, Michigan. Some of the states that have voucher programs, and receive public money for kids, they make children sign away their rights under the IDEA as a condition of being admitted to the school. ‘Oh, you want to come to our private school, and you want to use voucher money to do it? Well, we’ll let you in, but you have to sign saying you’ll never take us to court for violating your rights, for not treating you fairly under the IDEA. And only if you sign such a waiver will we allow you to come to our school.’


I just don’t think that’s fair.


As The Washington Post points out, 
the letter
 DeVos sent to Isakson pays lip service to the IDEA, but makes no mention of public schools, and includes lengthy reference to the voucher programs that Kaine describes. This is a serious issue that should concern anyone who cares about public education, but DeVos’ letter contained a much more fundamental gaffe than cuts deeper than policy.


In the last paragraph of her letter, DeVos offered an anecdote about personal friends of hers, and described their son as having “Down’s Syndrome,” rather than 
the correct term
 “Down Syndrome.”


To the average person, this might seem like a small error, but nomenclature 
matters a great deal
. I found that out 
when I wrote about
 my experiences as a parent using the “people with autism” terminology 
that is favored by
 many parents of autistic kids — but which many people who have Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs) find extremely hurtful. There are varying opinions on “person first” language, but as an ally to kids, I absolutely hew to their preference.


In DeVos’ case, there is no debate: “Down Syndrome” is the actual name of that disability, and her ignorance of that fact is a strong signal that she is not an ally to kids with disabilities. That is not to say she does not care about disabled kids. But her ignorance of the issues, which is reflected in her policies, shows that she is simply not qualified to protect their rights.














 Author 




 






Senior Writer


Tommy Christopher

     		Former White House correspondent and politics reporter for AOL, The Daily Banter, and Mediaite, and a longtime liberal journalist and commentator. Follow Tommy on Twitter @Tommyxtopher
		 	
































More












 










Fox News anchor schools despotic Senior White House Adviser on checks and balances




















 










Anne Frank Center: “Trump quacks, walks, and talks like an anti-Semite. That makes him an anti-Semite.”




































Shares






share


















Recent
Fox News anchor schools despotic Senior White House Adviser on checks and balances
Anne Frank Center: “Trump quacks, walks, and talks like an anti-Semite. That makes him an anti-Semite.”
Can’t wait for 2018: This month’s special elections are key for the Resistance
More than 22 million people could lose their doctor if Trump’s Muslim ban stays in place
Trump’s visit to a Black history museum cannot reset his racism
Without a trace of irony, WH says Mar-A-Lago makes Trump accessible to “regular Americans”
While Pence poses for cameras with U.S. allies, “President Bannon” meets in private to destroy them
62 year-old pig farmer warns GOP: Repealing Obamacare will create “one great big death panel”
Family values: White House says protecting trans kids is “states’ rights issue”
Trump is losing support from voices conservatives trust
Trump not sure where anti-Semitism is coming from — as WH fails again to mention Jews
John Lewis: ‘I will get in trouble. Good trouble. Necessary trouble.’
BIPARTISAN EXPERT: Trump’s chaos makes us more vulnerable to “major terrorist attack”
47,000 #ResistanceRecess organizers dash GOP hope that Resistance will ‘calm down’
It has now been a full week since Trump received an intelligence briefing
 




































































© 2016 True Blue Media LLC.




 
 
 
 


Company


Careers


Contact


Terms


Privacy








 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 




































 




















Press enter/return to begin your search
































 










×




































































