

















X








Edition:




United States


















































Business








Business Home


Legal


Deals


Aerospace & Defense






Finance


Autos


Reuters Summits


ADventures






Data Dive












Markets








Markets Home


U.S. Markets


European Markets


Asian Markets






Global Market Data


Stocks


Bonds


Currencies






Commodities


Futures


Funds


Earnings






Dividends












World








World Home


U.S.


Special Reports


Reuters Investigates






Euro Zone


Middle East


China


Japan






Mexico


Brazil


Africa


Russia






India












Politics








Politics Home


Polling Explorer


Live: Trump's First 100 Days


Supreme Court
















Tech








Technology Home


Science


Top 100 Global Innovators


Media






Environment


Innovation












Commentary








Commentary Home 


Podcasts












Breakingviews








Breakingviews Home


Breakingviews Video












Money








Money Home


Retirement


Lipper Awards


Analyst Research






Stock Screener


Fund Screener












Life








Health


Sports


Arts


Entertainment






Oddly Enough
















Pictures










Pictures Home


The Wider Image


Photographers


Focus 360




















Video































            U.S. could grant final permit for Dakota pipeline as soon as Friday: gover...
                
























Africa


América Latina






عربي


Argentina






Brasil


Canada






中国


Deutschland






España


France






India


Italia






日本


México






РОССИЯ


United Kingdom




United States






































U.S.


|


Mon Feb 6, 2017 | 9:08pm EST




U.S. could grant final permit for Dakota pipeline as soon as Friday: government lawyer







































                                	A police barricade stands on Backwater Bridge north of the Dakota Access oil pipeline protest camp near Cannon Ball, North Dakota, U.S., January 29, 2017. 

                                	
                                		REUTERS/Terray Sylvester
















By 
Valerie Volcovici


|
 WASHINGTON




WASHINGTON
 The U.S. Army secretary could make a decision on the final permit needed to complete the controversial Dakota Access Pipeline as soon as Friday, the government's lawyer told a Washington, D.C., court on Monday. 
The Army Corp of Engineers told the court it has submitted its recommendation to Robert Speer, the acting secretary of the Army, on whether it needs to complete a full environmental review before it can grant the final permit allowing work to start on a contested tunnel under a lake. The review was requested in December by former President Barack Obama.
Opponents argue that letting the pipeline cross under Lake Oahe, a reservoir that is the water source for the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation, would damage sacred lands and could leak oil into the tribe's water supply.
Proponents believe the pipeline is necessary to transport U.S. oil safely and that it would create jobs.


Jan Hasselman, an attorney with Earthjustice, who  represents the Standing Rock Sioux, said the tribe will challenge the U.S. government in court if the Army grants the easement. The tribe, along with other Native American groups, environmentalists and other activists, have opposed the $3.8 billion Dakota Access Pipeline led by Energy Transfer Partners LP (
ETP.N
). 
He said it is unclear whether construction could begin while the decision is challenged or whether the court will grant an injunction blocking the work.


“Our position is the tribe's treaty rights and the law require the full (Environmental Impact Study) process that the government initiated in December. Issuing the easement without that process will be a serious violation of the law,” Hasselman told Reuters.
A spokesman for the Army was not immediately available to comment. Energy Transfer Partners declined to comment on the legal proceedings.


At the hearing at the D.C. Circuit Court on Monday, lawyers for ETP said the pipeline would become fully operational around 90 days after construction begins. If the easement is granted, oil can start crossing under the lake, a reservoir that is part of the Missouri River, as soon as 60 days after construction starts.
 (Additional reporting by Liz Hampton in Houston; Editing by Dan Grebler)
















Next In 
 U.S.
 
















Showdown looms for protesters near site of Dakota Access pipeline


CANNON BALL, N.D. Demonstrators near the site of the Dakota Access pipeline braced for a showdown with authorities on Wednesday, as protest leaders said at least some would defy a deadline to abandon the camp they have occupied for months to halt the project.
















Trump's new security advisor differs from him on Russia, other key issues


WASHINGTON U.S. President Donald Trump has shown little patience for dissent, but that trait is likely to be tested by his new national security adviser, Army Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster.
















GE, Intel, AT&T; team up to put cameras, mics in San Diego


SEATTLE General Electric will put cameras, microphones and sensors on 3,200 street lights in San Diego this year, marking the first large-scale use of "smart city" tools GE says can help monitor traffic and pinpoint crime, but raising potential privacy concerns.





























MORE FROM 
REUTERS




















Sponsored 
Content












From Around the 
Web
Promoted by Revcontent























                                Trending 
Stories


















Pictures


















Photos of the Day









                                Sponsored 
Topics










X








Follow Reuters: 




Follow Us On Twitter


Follow Us On Facebook


Follow Us On RSS


Follow Us On Instagram


Follow Us On YouTube


Follow Us On LinkedIn


Subscribe: 


Feeds
 | 
Newsletters
 | 
Podcasts
 | 
Apps
 






Reuters News Agency
 | 
Brand Attribution Guidelines
  | 
Careers


Reuters is the news and media division of 
Thomson Reuters
. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:








Eikon


Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface 
        










Elektron


Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management 
      










World-Check


Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks 
      










Westlaw


Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology   
      










ONESOURCE


The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
      










CHECKPOINT


The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals 
      








 All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. 
See here for a complete list
 of exchanges and delays.










Site Feedback


Corrections


Advertising Guidelines


Cookies


Terms of Use


Privacy Policy














