













GQ
Style
Grooming
Women
Entertainment
Culture
Video
Subscribe Now
Get the Magazine
Get Even More GQ This Month
12 Issues for $15
Let's do it
Newsletter
Search
You need to enter a correct e-mail address.
Will be used in accordance with our 
Privacy Policy
Search
Betsy DeVos Is Your Secretary of Education Because Republican Senators Couldn't Afford to Say No
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Politics
Betsy DeVos Is Your Secretary of Education Because Republican Senators Couldn't Afford to Say No
By 
Jay Willis
February 7, 2017
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Facebook
Pinterest
Chip Somodevilla
 Whatever concerns GOP lawmakers had about DeVos' qualifications, they weren't enough to overcome the power of her wallet.
Betsy DeVos, a woman who 
cannot explain
 basic facts about the American education system but is pretty sure that guns can kill grizzly bears, was 
confirmed
 as Donald Trump&apos;s Secretary of Education on Tuesday afternoon. Vice President Mike Pence casted the deciding ballot after the Senate vote deadlocked at 50-50. How did a school-choice drum-beater who has 
no
 experience in public schools, and who has been 
called
 "partly responsible for what even charter advocates acknowledge is the biggest school reform disaster in the country," come to helm the country&apos;s Department of Education? The answer, it turns out, is paying an exceptionally hefty price for it. 
DeVos is, to use a technical term, rich as hell. Her father founded a Michigan manufacturing company that flourished when the auto industry took over Detroit, and her husband, Dick DeVos, Jr., is the heir to the Amway fortune. (Just for good measure, her father-in-law 
owns the Orlando Magic
). Public records 
indicate
 that during her lifetime, DeVos has 
personally
 donated nearly $2.5 million dollars to Republican candidates, PACs, and party organizations. An exhaustively-researched OpenSecrets.org report details millions of dollars in donations to Republican causes from her myriad family members and family-controlled business interests, and DeVos herself 
confirmed
 to an incredulous Bernie Sanders that those expenditures probably total some 
$200 million
. 
https://twitter.com/xdelmar59/status/829026587437780992
This probably isn&apos;t the first time you&apos;ve heard that money is important in politics, but DeVos&apos; contentious confirmation process provides revealing (if depressing) insight into what this actually looks like in practice. Even though the barrage of constituent phone calls urging lawmakers to scuttle DeVos&apos; nomination 
nearly fried
 Capitol Hill switchboards and set call-volume records, only two Republican senators—Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine—ultimately 
broke ranks
 with the party and voted against DeVos, necessitating the presence of Vice President Pence to break the tie. Despite 
tremendous
 pressure from millions of furious Americans, no other GOP lawmakers could be similarly swayed.
To understand why, look no further than the upcoming Senate election maps. Collins and Murkowski don&apos;t have to defend their seats until 2020 and 2022, respectively, so they have significantly more leeway when it comes to deviating from the party agenda. If they think DeVos is an unqualified rube who poses a danger to American public education as we know it, voting against her confirmation is a relatively low-risk political proposition. For the 
two Republican senators
 prepping for 2018 reelection bids, though—Dean Heller of Nevada and Jeff Flake of Arizona—the pro-con list looks very different. These lawmakers are already knee-deep in the fundraising process, and at this critical juncture, DeVos&apos; family is too big a source of money, power, and influence within donor circles to alienate. 
In other words, Republican senators who had doubts about DeVos, ignored their constituents, and voted to confirm her anyway did so because they didn&apos;t think they could afford to do anything else. In less than two years, Heller and Flake will find out if they were right.
Watch Now: Here&apos;s a Look at Trump&apos;s Cabinet of Villains
betsy devos
cabinet
politics
money talk$
MORE STORIES LIKE THIS ONE
Politics
Donald Trump Advisor Stephen Miller Says New Muslim Ban Will Basically Be the Same as the Old Muslim Ban
Politics
Mitch McConnell Went to a Town Hall in Kentucky and Got Dunked on by a Constituent
GET THE
Magazine
Subscribe now and get a FREE weekender bag and the GQ Style Guide.
Subscribe
FOLLOW US ON
Instagram
Follow @GQ for photos of celebrities, what to wear to work, and more.
Follow Us
GQ Report
Contact
Press Center
RSS Feeds
Follow
Follow Us On Facebook
Follow Us On Twitter
Follow Us On Pinterest
Follow Us On YouTube
Follow Us On Tumblr
Follow Us On Instagram
Find GQ.com Around the World
U.K.
China
France
Korea
Italy
Australia
Germany
South Africa
Spain
Mexico
Russia
India
Taiwan
Portugal
Japan
Turkey
Brazil
Thailand
Resources
Subscription Services
Careers
Condé Nast Store
Reprints / Permissions
GQ Media Kit
Site Map
Condé Nast
© 
2017
 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
User Agreement
 (effective 1/4/2014) and 
Privacy Policy
 (effective 1/4/2014). 
GQ may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. 
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with prior written permission of Condé Nast.


























