



































































































































 








 










































































Search for:








 


Home


About




About Us


Our Team


Contributors


Contact Us






Advertise




Download Our Media Kit






Job Opportunities


Follow Us




 Facebook


 Twitter


 Pinterest


 Google Plus






Subscribe To Newsletter


 










Search for:








 




































In case you missed it, these are the two Republicans who voted against Betsy DeVos




February 7, 2017
 
|
 
BPR Wire
 
|
 
 
Print Article
 








Total: 
13.9K
 
SHARE
13.7K
 
TWEET
62
 
PIN
100
 
PLUS
6
 
EMAIL
Total: 
13.9K
 
 
13.7K
 
 
62
 
 
6
 
 
100
 
 


Rachel Stoltzfoos, 
DCNF


Two Republican senators voted against President Donald Trump’s secretary of education nominee Betsy DeVos Tuesday, forcing Vice President Mike Pence to cast a historic vote to break the tie to confirm her.












Republican Sens. Lisa Murkowski, of Alaska, and Susan Collins, of Maine, sided with every Democrat and two Independent senators to oppose DeVos. Pence then cast the deciding vote, which marks the first time a vice president has had to break a tie regarding a cabinet nomination.


Murkowski and Collins 
announced their opposition
 to DeVos ahead of the vote on the grounds she is not qualified to be the education secretary. “I simply cannot support her confirmation,” Collins said on the Senate floor last week.


DeVos has been criticized for showing a lack of depth of knowledge of the education system in her confirmation hearings, but is primarily opposed by Democrats because of her standing as a wealthy conservative who is pro-school choice. Murkowski and Collins were accused by some conservatives of voting no 
because of influence from teacher’s unions
 in their districts who are opposed to DeVos.






Murkowski was just re-elected to another six years in the Senate, and Collins is not up for re-election until 2020.


Collins called the decision “difficult” in a statement following her vote, citing the concerns of superintendents, school teachers and other education experts in Maine, as well as a comment from DeVos showing a lack of familiarity with an education regarding kids with special needs in her confirmation hearing, as the reasons for her vote.


Murkowski said in a statement Tuesday that while she doesn’t favor DeVos, she looks forward to working with her. “We share a common goal that all children receive the best education,” she said.


Follow Rachel on Twitter


Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact 
[email protected]












 
About
 
Latest Posts
 
BPR Wire
 
 
Latest posts by BPR Wire 
(
see all
)
 
 
Freed Gitmo detainee turned ISIS bomber dies rich after being rewarded $1.2 million in gov’t benefits
 - February 22, 2017
 
 
 
Report: NYC FBI agents actually joked about seeing Hillary in handcuffs
 - February 22, 2017
 
 
 
Notorious ‘Never Trump’ org funded group behind Milo controversy, waited for moment to strike
 - February 22, 2017
 
 
 




Post navigation


Schwarzenegger dishes on how he REALLY felt when the not-so-friendly rivalry ignited with Trump
Bill O’Reilly offers sharp response to Kremlin’s demand for an apology over ‘Vlad is a killer’ remark








Related Posts
















Follow Us:
 
Like
 
Follow
 
Follow
 
Plus
 
Subscribe
 
Email
 










WHAT'S POPULAR
 




















About BizPac Review
 


Conservative news you can trust!


Other News Sources




Drudge Report


Right Wing News






 


 


Quick Links
About Us


Contact Us


Comment Policy


Privacy Policy


Sitemap


 







                Copyright © 2017. All Rights Reserved. BizPacReview — Built by 
WPDevelopers
.            






Send this to friend
Your email
Recipient email
Send
Cancel








