 
























NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.


LEARN MORE »




















Sections




Home




Search


Skip to content


Skip to navigation


View mobile version










The New York Times












The Opinion Pages
|
I Was on the National Security Council. Bannon Doesn’t Belong There.
















Search




Subscribe Now


Log In






0


Settings










Close search




Site Search Navigation








Search NYTimes.com








Clear this text input








Go














https://nyti.ms/2kE9VOf










Loading...










See next articles












See previous articles




















Site Navigation






Site Mobile Navigation












Advertisement


















Supported by








The Opinion Pages
 
|
                            Op-Ed Contributor                                                            


I Was on the National Security Council. Bannon Doesn’t Belong There.




By 
MICHAEL G. MULLEN
FEB. 6, 2017








Continue reading the main story


Share This Page




Continue reading the main story
























In his first weeks in office, President Trump has outlined plans 
to reorganize the White House’s National Security Council
. This is in keeping with tradition: New presidents regularly reconfigure the council to fit their management style and national security priorities. Some of Mr. Trump’s plans, such as including the director of the C.I.A. as a full voting member of the council, are welcome.
But some of Mr. Trump’s other plans are unsettling and should be remedied as soon as possible — in particular the role he has given to his top political adviser, Stephen K. Bannon.
What’s more, according to Mr. Trump’s plans for the National Security Council, neither the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the nation’s highest-ranking military officer and the president’s primary military adviser, nor the director of national intelligence, the president’s primary intelligence adviser, will be a permanent member of the council’s “principals committee,” a core group responsible for formulating policy.
President George W. Bush’s council, on which I served from 2007 through 2009 as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of staff, was arranged similarly to Mr. Trump’s. But it bears noting that under President Obama, both the director of national intelligence and I were permanent members of the principals committee, codifying the importance of these positions.


Photo














Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, showing paperwork that compares the makeup of the Trump administration’s National Security Council to those of previous administrations.




Credit

            Stephen Crowley/The New York Times        






In my experience there are very few — if any — meetings of the principals committee at which the input of the military and the intelligence community is not vital. With an increasingly belligerent Russia, tensions in the South China Sea and a smoldering Middle East, it makes little sense to minimize the participation of the professionals leading and representing these two groups.
 
Continue reading the main story
















Advertisement




Continue reading the main story












The Trump White House insists that the new organizational structure does not downgrade the roles of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs or the director of national intelligence. (The White House and Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the current chairman of the Joint Chiefs, have both said that General Dunford will fully participate in the council’s duties.) If this is true, the administration should clarify that by making them permanent members of the principals committee. That would send a strong signal that Mr. Trump will still take seriously the military and intelligence community.




Advertisement




Continue reading the main story




The second much needed adjustment to Mr. Trump’s arrangement of the council is the removal of Mr. Bannon from the principals committee. Putting aside for a moment Mr. Bannon’s troubling public positions, which are worrisome enough, institutionalizing his attendance threatens to politicize national security decision making.
The security council was formed in 1947 to serve a unique role in our government. It facilitates and coordinates, providing a forum through which federal agencies discuss and debate policy and, ultimately, provide counsel to the president about how best to keep the American people safe. At N.S.C. meetings, representatives from the State Department, the Pentagon, the Treasury Department, the intelligence community and other agencies speak freely and critically about the full breadth of options available to the United States. Those discussions can get heated at times. They can certainly get territorial. But they seldom get political — nor should they.
Mr. Bush understood this, as did his successor. As has been widely reported, Mr. Bush barred Karl Rove, his chief political adviser, from council meetings. And while I remember David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s political adviser, attending meetings early in that administration, he did not vote or otherwise engage in the discussion.


Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter
 
Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
 






Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.


Invalid email address. Please re-enter.


You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.








Sign Up
















Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.












Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.


View all New York Times newsletters.






See Sample


Manage Email Preferences


Not you?


Privacy Policy








Having Mr. Bannon as a voting member of the principals committee will have a negative influence on what is supposed to be candid, nonpartisan deliberation. I fear that it will have a chilling effect on deliberations and, potentially, diminish the authority and the prerogatives to which Senate-confirmed cabinet officials are entitled. They, unlike Mr. Bannon, are accountable for the advice they give and the policies they execute.
Consistent though Mr. Bannon’s presence may be with the predilections of our new president, it results in a blurring of presidential responsibilities — Republican Party leader and commander in chief — that is unhealthy for the republic.
I’m perfectly aware that political concerns color the national security decisions that any president makes. The invasion of Iraq, the surge in Afghanistan, air operations over Libya, sanctions on Russia and, of course, the decision not to strike Syria after President Bashar al-Assad crossed Mr. Obama’s “red line” on chemical weapons were all informed — if not dominated — by political calculations.




But those decisions were made outside the confines of the Situation Room, where the security council meets. I cannot remember a single instance during my four-year stint as chairman of the Joint Chiefs where it was otherwise. That’s the way it should be.
Every president has the right and the responsibility to shape the security council as he sees fit. But partisan politics has no place at that table. And neither does Mr. Bannon.




Michael G. Mullen, a retired United States Navy admiral, was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 2007 to 2011.


Follow The New York Times Opinion section on 
Facebook
 and 
Twitter
 (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the 
Opinion Today newsletter
. 


A version of this op-ed appears in print on February 6, 2017, on Page A21 of the 
New York edition
 with the headline: Bannon Has No Place on the N.S.C. 
 
Today's Paper
|
Subscribe










Continue reading the main story














We’re interested in your feedback on this page. 
Tell us what you think.




























































What's Next






Loading...




















Go to Home Page »




Site Index




The New York Times












Site Index Navigation






News






World






U.S.






Politics






N.Y.






Business






Tech






Science






Health






Sports






Education






Obituaries






Today's Paper






Corrections










Opinion






Today's Opinion






Op-Ed Columnists






Editorials






Contributing Writers






Op-Ed Contributors






Opinionator






Letters






Sunday Review






Taking Note






Room for Debate






Public Editor






Video: Opinion










Arts






Today's Arts






Art & Design






Books






Dance






Movies






Music






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Television






Theater






Video: Arts










Living






Automobiles






Crossword






Food






Education






Fashion & Style






Health






Jobs






Magazine






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Real Estate






T Magazine






Travel






Weddings & Celebrations










Listings & More






Classifieds






Tools & Services






Times Topics






Public Editor






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Blogs






Multimedia






Photography






Video






NYT Store






Times Journeys






Subscribe






Manage My Account










Subscribe




Subscribe






Home Delivery








Digital Subscriptions








Times Insider








Crossword










Email Newsletters






Alerts






Gift Subscriptions






Corporate Subscriptions






Education Rate










Mobile Applications






Replica Edition


















Site Information Navigation







                    © 
2017
 The New York Times Company






Home


Search


Accessibility concerns? Email us at 
accessibility@nytimes.com
. We would love to hear from you.


Contact Us


Work With Us


Advertise


Your Ad Choices


Privacy


Terms of Service


Terms of Sale








Site Information Navigation




Site Map


Help


Site Feedback


Subscriptions






































