

















































































Jump to nav




Login










ADVERTISEMENT
















Immigrant teen arrested in Little Rock out on bond, Searcy-bound











            
              Photographs by  Special to the Democrat-Gazette
            
          



          Tatiana Jaco-Alvarez
          






Story by 
Eric Besson


Tuesday, February 7, 2017










The 18-year-old female immigrant whose arrest 10 days earlier intensified confusion about how federal authorities are enforcing immigration law was released from jail Monday afternoon.


Tatiana Jaco-Alvarez was to be reunited with her family, with whom she will live in Searcy during her pending immigration court case as an unaccompanied migrant child.


Jaco-Alvarez's pastor and his wife on Monday made the 10-hour round-trip drive from Searcy to retrieve her from a Jena, La., detention center, family friend Maria Cardena said. The trip took longer than expected because the pastor was instructed to drive an additional four hours to and from a different federal site to post the $1,500 bond, Cardena said.


The trio were expected to arrive home about 10 p.m., after stopping off for a drink at Jaco-Alvarez's request.


"She said she wants some soda," Cardena said.


[
U.S. immigration: Data visualization of selected immigration statistics, U.S. border map
]


Jaco-Alvarez's arrest Jan. 27 was lawful but abnormal because she has not missed a hearing for her pending removal case and was not accused of committing a crime, immigration attorneys said.


As agencies interpret executive action by President Donald Trump into policy, it's not clear whether Jaco-Alvarez's arrest was an isolated shift from law-enforcement norms or indicative of how agencies might take action more broadly against unaccompanied migrant children, attorneys said.


Jaco-Alvarez, then 17, came to the U.S. in May 2016 in search of refuge from her native El Salvador, which is plagued by gangs and violence against women and children, said her mother, who moved to Arkansas eight years ago. Whether Jaco-Alvarez qualifies for asylum or other lawful status will be determined as part of her pending removal case.


[
EMAIL UPDATES: Get free breaking news alerts, daily newsletters with top headlines delivered to your inbox
]














The 
Arkansas Democrat-Gazette
 is not identifying Jaco-Alvarez's mother by name because she is not a lawful U.S. resident. Her mother has provided details that were otherwise unavailable.


Jaco-Alvarez is one of more than 930 unaccompanied children who were released to sponsors in Arkansas between October 2013 and December 2016, according to the most-current data from U.S. Health and Human Services. Nationally, nearly 154,000 unaccompanied migrant children have been placed with sponsors in that same span.


Authorities detained Jaco-Alvarez at an Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Little Rock, where she reported after receiving a letter summoning her for an interview with a deportation officer.


A U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement public affairs officer said the agency would take no further action against Jaco-Alvarez before her pending removal proceedings are resolved.


"ICE is focused on smart, effective immigration enforcement that prioritizes the removal of criminal aliens and other individuals who pose a threat to national security, public safety and border security," said spokesman, Tom Byrd, of the agency's New Orleans field office, in a typed statement.


Byrd declined to answer specific questions about the case.


Before her arrest, Jaco-Alvarez was scheduled to next appear in court in March 2018.


As of Monday evening, Jaco-Alvarez planned to resume class at Searcy High School on Tuesday morning, Cardena said.


A Section on 02/07/2017














Get 24/7 Access. Subscribe Now.






ACCESS. ANYTIME. ANYWHERE.






We hope you've enjoyed your preview of ArkansasOnline.com.


You've now read the maximum number of stories available without a subscription.


Subscribe now for complete and uninterrupted access to the best local, state and national news.








Already have an account?




SIGN IN






Get 24/7 Access. Subscribe Now.




SUBSCRIBE






Already a subscriber? Register for full access here.




REGISTER








Take me back to the 
homepage
.
















































Comments








libertas2u
 says...
        




So if her mother has lived here eight years and if she is legal why didn't she go the legal route to bring her daughter to the country? 







            Posted 7 February 2017, 8:33 a.m. 
            
              
                
Suggest removal












purplebouquet
 says...
        




Libertas, the article says that the mother is not a lawful U.S. resident, so she can't pursue any legal routes to bring in others. 







            Posted 7 February 2017, 9:11 a.m. 
            
              
                
Suggest removal












drs01
 says...
        




Mom is illegal....benefits from "wink and nod" policies of the last 8 years. She also has spent thousands getting her two daughters here, and sending thousands more to relatives for the support of her other two children. Why, I ask, in 8 years hasn't she tried to take a legal path toward citizenship. She has a business; she makes money. The only reason I can come up with is OUR LACK OF ENFORCEMENT HAS ENABLED HER TO LIVE HERE, HAVE A BUSINESS while other go through the proper channels to get what she has. If bleeding hearts can't see the injustice in that, then they are brain damaged. This case is a perfect example of why we need a strong hand (Trump) enforcing our laws. Otherwise, it's more chaos.   







            Posted 7 February 2017, 11:17 a.m. 
            
              
                
Suggest removal












KCSAP
 says...
        




More propaganda news!  They don't even state why she was arrested.  Kind of a key piece of information to forget?







            Posted 7 February 2017, 11:32 a.m. 
            
              
                
Suggest removal










Log in to comment








Click here to login






























NEWS






Homepage


Latest News


Today's Newspaper


Obituaries


Editorial/Voices


Sports


Razorbacks


Business


National (AP)


Politics (AP)


Weather










OBITUARIES










PHOTOS










VIDEOS










ENTERTAINMENT






Restaurants


Entertainment News


Comics


Blogs










TRAFFIC










EVENTS










MUGSHOTS










CLASSIFIEDS






Automotive


Homes


Jobs


Classifieds










ARKANSAS DAILY DEAL










ARKANSAS LIFE










OTHER RESOURCES






These items may not be suitable for a mobile device


Newspaper Archive


Bridal Community










ARKANSAS ONLINE (Full Site)










MY ACCOUNT






Login


Not a subscriber? Click here to learn about newspaper and online only subscrption rates.










©2017 Arkansas Democrat-Gazette
























