







































































































































 




































































News
Election 2016


Americas


UK


World


Europe


Business




Voices
Comment


Robert Fisk


Mark Steel


Grace Dent


Holly Baxter


Campaigns


Editorials


Letters




Sports
US sports


Soccer


Tennis


Boxing


Formula 1


WWE




Culture
Film


TV


Music


Books




Lifestyle
Fashion


Food + drink


Travel


Health + families


Love + sex




Tech
Gaming


Tech culture


Tech news




US election


Daily Edition
Subscribe for a free trial


Read Now




 










 












 










UK Edition 






US Edition 












Sign in


Register


Subscriptions


 














 












 
News
Election 2016


World


US


UK


Europe


People


Science


Health


Business




Voices
Comment


Robert Fisk


Mark Steel


Grace Dent


Holly Baxter


Campaigns


Editorials


Letters




Sports
US sports


Soccer


Cricket


Tennis


Boxing


Formula 1




Culture
Books


Film


TV


Music


Art


Theatre & Dance


Comedy




Lifestyle
Food & drink


Health & families


Love & sex


Motoring


Student


Travel


Fashion




Tech
Gaming


Tech culture


Tech news




Video
Explainer videos


News videos


People & culture videos


Sport videos




IndyBest
Fashion & Beauty


Homes & Design


Food & Drink


Gadgets & Tech


Outdoor & Activity


Arts & Books


Travel




Money
Health insurance


Investments




Extras
The Independent Books


Puzzles


indy100


Apps


Ebooks


iJobs


Dating




 


Follow us:




































We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our 
Privacy
 and 
Cookie
 Policies to find out more.




 












Voices


These are the alarming parallels between the views of Steve Bannon and those held by Islamist jihadis




The enemy for Bannon is secularism. This, he believes, is responsible for progressively diluting pure Christian ideals with all sorts of modern and postmodern ideologies








Russell Razzaque






@mindfulrussell




Tuesday 7 February 2017 11:30 GMT
















Click to follow
The Independent Online





















        Steve Bannon emerges from an elevator at Trump Tower. He is now the most influential individual in Donald Trump’s administration 
Getty
 






At the time of Trump’s unexpected election victory, there was much speculation over who would really run the US Government, given the incoming President’s notorious lack of patience and attention to detail. Now that question has been answered: this White House is Steve Bannon’s. 


The one element that unites 
every executive order
 and every speech the President has given since assuming office is the 
Bannon world view
. So if we are to understand the trajectory of this new American administration, we need to invest some time in trying to understand Bannon, his outlook, and where he plans to take us next.


Having 
studied radical Islamists
 for more than a decade, as I started to look into Bannon’s perspective and philosophies I started to notice significant parallels between the two mindsets. According to Bannon, based on his responses to a series of interviews granted in recent years, our world is in the midst of an epic battle. It is a battle between good and evil, and the force of pure good is the Christian civilisation that was bequeathed to the West over 2000 years ago. Bannon’s belief is that this Christian society, the greatest civilisation known to man, has been eroded, corrupted and brought to the brink of destruction over the last several decades. 


He rests the blame for this decay on several shoulders. First on the list are crony capitalists. Bannon has stated that he believes capitalism is no longer working as it should. Where it was once imbued with a Christian philanthropic ethic, in which gains were shared among the community – presumably the Christian community – it now appears to be driven purely by personal greed.










Steve 
Bannon
 calls liberal women 'a bunch of dykes'


The next enemy for Bannon is secularism. This, he believes, is responsible for progressively diluting pure Christian ideals with all sorts of modern and postmodern ideologies, as well as a general openness to other cultures and perspectives. 


Secularism is the enemy within; radical Islam is the enemy without. It is a direct challenge to the Christian ideal and so represents a grave existential threat to it. Similarly, the Chinese with their lack of Christian culture or values are singled out too – particularly as the Chinese economy is on the rise.


Like the Islamist radicals I have studied, Bannon’s perspective is based on a genuine desire to create a better society for his chosen few. The problem, however – again, just like the problem for the jihadi – is that he is very selective in who he wants to help. Bannon puts his ideal, and his people, on a pedestal while all else are considered unworthy.






Read more








No, we shouldn't call Donald Trump a 'Nazi'






A further parallel is the way in which both Bannon and Islamist jihadis are completely oblivious to the fact that the greatest transgressors of their own ideals are among themselves. Islamists believe in the importance of following the guidance of the Quran, yet their own behaviour contradicts more Quranic teachings than that of almost any so-called Western “infidel”. 


Similarly, while Bannon may be right to point the finger at the evolution of capitalism into something soulless and self-serving, he himself made millions working in Goldman Sachs and is now working with Donald Trump, who has employed a team of similarly aggressive capitalists around his cabinet table. 


Bannon is also invested heavily in the media that he attacks so vociferously. By making his money this way – even off programmes such as 
Seinfeld 
– he has done more than most to promote the modern secular way of life; and all to make a quick buck for himself in the process.






Read more








Lady Gaga's protest by subtlety was a disappointment






Where his attitudes merge most closely with those of the radical Islamist, however, is on strategy. Both see conflict as the only way to win. In an interview last year Bannon stated unambiguously, “We’re going to war in the South China Sea ... there is no doubt about that”. A few months before that he stated, “We’re clearly going into, I think, a major shooting war in the Middle East again.” 


Note the recent declaration by Trump’s national security adviser that Iran was officially now “on notice”, as well as the US Defence Secretary’s newly inflammatory remarks over the weekend about Chinese presence in the South China Sea. 


Soon after Trump’s election victory, historian David Kaiser wrote about his own session with Bannon in which he interviewed him about a theory known as the Fourth Turning, which had taken Bannon’s interest. The theory involves the way in which America seems to go through a giant crisis every 80 or so years; and each time the crisis has resulted in a major paradigm shift for the country. 










Donald Trump’s closest adviser Steve 
Bannon
 thinks there will be war with China in the next few years


During this meeting, Kaiser refused to be drawn on whether a fourth such crisis was underway now. Kaiser wrote: “More than once during our interview, he [Bannon] pointed out that each of the three preceding crises had involved a great war, and those conflicts had increased in scope from the American Revolution through the Civil War to the Second World War. He expected a new and even bigger war as part of the current crisis, and he did not seem at all fazed by the prospect.” 


This apparent blood thirst for an epic philosophical and cultural struggle is what finally and indelibly bonds Bannon to the radical Islamist. 


The most dangerous people are those who cannot locate their demons within themselves and instead see them everywhere they look. The frenetic activity we are experiencing from the Trump administration is already feeling to many like a prelude to something altogether more grave. What we are witnessing is a drum beat. 


Now we know who is really running the White House, it is time to be vigilant and perhaps start to plan proactively for the horrors that – if we take Bannon at his word – may well lie ahead.


Russell Razzaque is a London-based psychiatrist and author of ‘
Human Being to Human Bomb: The Conveyor Belt of Terror
'







              More about:
            


Steve Bannon


Donald Trump


Islamist extremism






Reuse content






















 






 












Comments






























Most Popular


















Video










Sponsored Features


























Follow us:
















User Policies


Privacy Policy


Cookie Policy


Code of Conduct


Complaint Form


Contact Us


Contributors


All Topics


Archive


Newsletters


Jobs


Subscriptions


Advertising Guide


Syndication


Evening Standard


Novaya Gazeta


Install our Apps


 


 


 


 


 






 






















Close








We've noticed that you are using an ad blocker.


Advertising helps fund our journalism and keep it truly independent. It helps to build our international editorial team, from war correspondents to investigative reporters, commentators to critics.




Click here to view instructions
 on how to disable your ad blocker, and help us to keep providing you with free-thinking journalism - for free.


Thank you for your support.


 






How to disable your ad blocker for 
independent.co.uk


 Adblock / Adblock Plus




Click the Adblock/Adblock Plus icon, which is to the right of your address bar.


On Adblock click "Don't run on pages on this domain".


On Adblock Plus click "Enabled on this site" to disable ad blocking for the current website you are on. If you are in Firefox click "disable on 
independent.co.uk
".




Firefox Tracking Protection




If you are Private Browsing in Firefox, "Tracking Protection" may cause the adblock notice to show. It can be temporarily disabled by clicking the "shield" icon in the address bar.




Ghostery




Click the Ghostery icon.


In versions before 6.0 click "whitelist site".


In version 6.0 click "trust site" or add 
independent.co.uk
 to your Trusted Site list.


In versions before 6.0 you will see the message "Site is whitelisted".


Click "reload the page to see your changes".




uBlock




Click the uBlock icon.


Then click the big power button to whitelist the current web site, and its state will be remembered next time you visit the web site.


Then reload the page.


 










Close








Thank you for supporting 
independent.co.uk
 


Continue to our site












 


























































