































































Send Comments & News Tips
Sign In
 Sections
Published Since 2000
TPM
 
dc
DeVos Confirmed As Education Secretary With Pence's Tie-Breaking Vote
SHARE
TWEET
PIN-IT
 Comments
Bookmark
Bill Clark
By
Esme Cribb
Published
February 7, 2017, 12:29 PM EDT
The Senate voted to confirm Betsy DeVos as President Donald Trump's secretary of education on Tuesday, with Vice President Mike Pence casting the tie-breaking vote.
Pence's vote was the first time a vice president broke a Senate deadlock on a Cabinet nomination in U.S. history.


The Senate tied on the vote after two Republicans, Sens. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Susan Collins (R-ME), voted against DeVos. Four years ago it would have taken 60 votes to confirm her to Trump's cabinet, but that threshold was lowered to 51 votes after former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) changed the rules in 2014.


Republicans were inundated with calls from constituents and interest groups urging them to vote against DeVos' confirmation. In a last-ditch messaging effort, Democrats spent the 24 hours before the vote 
speaking
 against DeVos on the floor in an organized talkathon.




 Protesters gathered in Upper Senate Park at the Capitol on Monday calling on Senators to reject DeVos. 
(Bill Clark/AP)


DeVos, a Republican donor and charter schools advocate, proved to be one of Trump's most controversial cabinet nominees. She has never taught at or even attended a public school, and 
faced criticism
 from Democrats and labor unions who accused her of seeking to dismantle public education and divert funds to charter schools.


Her January confirmation hearing was 
delayed
 nearly a week at the request of Senate leadership, and an aide to Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) said the senator hoped DeVos would use the additional time to "complete the required ethics paperwork."


Despite this, it came to light days later that DeVos initially failed to disclose a $125,000 donation to an anti-union group ahead of her hearing, an 
omission
 which came amid protest from Democrats who 
accused
 the Trump transition team of rushing the confirmation process.


During the rocky confirmation hearing itself, Murray 
pressed
 DeVos to commit to avoiding conflicts of interest and not engaging in political contributions if she was confirmed, and noted that the committee still did not have her ethics paperwork.


DeVos was roundly mocked for citing "potential grizzlies" as a reason to allow firearms in schools.




DeVos responds to 
@ChrisMurphyCT
 with support for Trump plan to get rid of gun free zones; cites grizzly bears as reason for guns in schools 
pic.twitter.com/EPcocq8an4


— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) 
January 18, 2017






"I think that's best left to locales and states to decide," she said.


When pressed to say "definitively" whether guns should be allowed in schools, DeVos cited an elementary school in Wapiti, Wyoming, with a fence to protect students from wildlife.


"I would imagine that there's probably a gun in the school to protect from potential grizzlies," she said.


Asked whether she thinks schools should be required to comply with the federal Individuals With Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), DeVos appeared ignorant of the law.


"Were you unaware when I just asked you about the IDEA that it was a federal law?" Sen. Maggie Hassan (D-NH) asked DeVos.


"I may have confused it," she replied.


She also appeared unaware of the difference between assessing students' proficiency versus growth.




Sen. Al Franken discovers Trump Education Secretary nominee Betsy DeVos doesn't know the difference between proficiency and growth. 
pic.twitter.com/QFQchwHhuc


— Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) 
January 18, 2017






DeVos also apparently 
lifted
 entire phrases and sentences from sources without attribution in her written responses to a questionnaire from the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, as 
flagged
 by the Washington Post.
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Esme Cribb
 
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK
PIN-IT
TWEET
SHARE
 Comments






LiveWire
Anti-Defamation League Headquarters Receives Bomb Threat
 
21 minutes ago
 
The New York headquarters of the Anti-Defamation League received a bomb threat Wednesday....
WATCH LIVE: Sean Spicer Gives Daily Press Briefing At 12:45 PM ET
 
32 minutes ago
 
White House press secretary Sean Spicer is scheduled to give his daily briefing on...
NYT: Sessions And DeVos Clashed Over Protections For Transgender Students
 
39 minutes ago
 
Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos clashed over a draft...
GOP Rep.: Bales Of Marijuana Concealing Nukes Can Cross Border
 
about an hour ago
 
A Republican congressman from Arizona defended the construction of a barrier on the U.S.-Mexico...
Bill Maher Claims Credit For Downfall Of Milo Yiannopoulos: 'You're Welcome'
 
about 2 hours ago
 
Bill Maher, host of HBO's "Real Time," took credit on Tuesday for hastening the...
Most Popular
The Hive
TOP DISCUSSIONS
COMMENTS
About
Terms of Use
Careers
Site Status
Advertise
Contact
Editor & Publisher
Josh Marshall
Managing Editor
David Kurtz
Senior Editor
Catherine Thompson
News Editor
David Taintor
Reporters
Tierney Sneed
Allegra Kirkland
Alice Ollstein
Newswriters
Esme Cribb
Caitlin Mac Neal
Matt Shuham
Editor-at-Large
John B. Judis
Front Page Editor
Kristin Salaky
Publishing Fellow
Annie Rees
General Manager & General Counsel
Millet Israeli
Senior Vice President for Advertising Strategy
Will Johnson
Director of Product & Creative Development
Derick Dirmaier
Executive Publisher
Joe Ragazzo
Account and Product Manager
Gayatri Surendranathan
Director of Technology
Matthew Wozniak
Developer
Matt Fortuna
Designer
Christine Frapech
Publishing Associate
Jackie Wilhelm
 @ 2016 TPM Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. 


























