 
























NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.


LEARN MORE »




















Sections




Home




Search


Skip to content


Skip to navigation


View mobile version










The New York Times












Television
|
Jimmy Kimmel Unmasks ‘Brady,’ as Jimmy Fallon Woos Belichick
















Search




Subscribe Now


Log In






0


Settings










Close search




Site Search Navigation








Search NYTimes.com








Clear this text input








Go














https://nyti.ms/2kI6NAZ










Loading...










See next articles












See previous articles




















Site Navigation






Site Mobile Navigation












Advertisement


















Supported by








Television
 
|
                            Best of Late Night                                                            


Jimmy Kimmel Unmasks ‘Brady,’ as Jimmy Fallon Woos Belichick




By 
SOPAN DEB
FEB. 7, 2017








Continue reading the main story


Share This Page




Continue reading the main story


























Photo














“Tom Brady” celebrated the Patriots’ Super Bowl win with Jimmy Kimmel.




Credit

            ABC        








This week, The New York Times is 
bingeing on
 late-night comedy shows and curating the best stuff — jokes, skits, interviews, even a Trump-free bit or two — in case you missed it. You need
 sleep, after all, and something in the news to smile about. We don’t need anything because we’re getting paid to watch late night which is insane.
All Hail ‘Tom Brady’
Everybody had some fun Monday night with the Super Bowl, but Jimmy Kimmel had the best trick up his sleeve when he introduced the Patriots’ star quarterback, Tom Brady. Out came a short guy in a football uniform who looked an awful lot like Matt Damon, Mr. Kimmel’s fake archnemesis, who has been repeatedly denied a guest spot on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”




A Super Bowl MVP made a surprise appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”
 
Jimmy Kimmel Live!




KIMMEL:
 Take your helmet off.


“BRADY”:
 No, it’s my lucky helmet. I’m not going to take it off. Just so much success here —
Mr. Kimmel finally unmasked Mr. Damon, and the audience went wild.
DAMON:
 Touchdown!


KIMMEL:
 It is not a touchdown.


DAMON:
 It’s a touchdown! I won the Super Bowl, and I won your stupid show!


KIMMEL:
 You did not win this show, because you’re not on the couch, and the couch isn’t even out here!
Mr. Kimmel then called a security guard, who asked “Brady” for an autograph before showing him the door. But that didn’t stop Mr. Damon from celebrating.




Matt Damon being interviewed after his Kimmel appearance.
 
Jimmy Kimmel Live!




Fawning Over Gaga and Belichick
As for the losing Falcons team, 
Stephen Colbert
 was brutal.
“Atlanta hasn’t been burned this badly since 1864,” Mr. Colbert said on “The Late Show.”
 
Continue reading the main story
















Advertisement




Continue reading the main story












He also got in a dig at President Trump by praising Lady Gaga’s high-wire leap during the halftime show:
“She really captured the national mood of wanting to hurl yourself off a building.”




Stephen Colbert took some digs at the Falcons after their Super Bowl loss. 
 
The Late Show With Stephen Colbert




And “The Tonight Show” scored a coup: The Patriots’ star wide receiver, Julian Edelman, and famously gruff head coach, Bill Belichick, were guests.




Advertisement




Continue reading the main story




“Julian is really excited to be here,” Jimmy Fallon said, “and Bill is also here.”




Bill Belichick and Julian Edelman of the Patriots on “The Tonight Show.”
 
The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon




Mr. Edelman probably sent Falcons fans over the edge with this revelation about the stunning catch he made as he landed on the ground.
FALLON:
 Give me a percentage. How much was hand-eye coordination, how much was luck?


EDELMAN:
 I would say, it was probably like 70 percent luck.
But the Fallon interview also stood out for just how gushing it was, even by Mr. Fallon’s friendly standards.
FALLON:
 Can I call you coach? Do you mind if I call you coach?


BELICHICK:
 Oh yeah, because I’ve been called a lot worse than that.


[LAUGHTER]


FALLON:
 You have the best game face out of any coach in the history of the game, anyone, anywhere, any coach, anything. If you — you intimidate me when I watch you. Right now, I’m a little scared.
Among the Trump Takedowns ...




Stephen Colbert on the fake Bowling Green massacre.
 
The Late Show with Stephen Colbert




Mr. Colbert flayed one of Mr. Trump’s senior advisers, Kellyanne Conway, for falsely claiming the existence of a “Bowling Green massacre” with 
MSNBC
 and 
Cosmopolitan
 and referring to 
a “Bowling Green attack” with TMZ
.
“It could be more media bias,” Mr. Colbert said. “I say they need to present both sides of the story: The things that did happen and the things that didn’t happen. Then let the victims of the Bowling Green massacre decide if they were killed.”
Seth Meyers
 of “Late Night” mocked Mr. Trump and Ms. Conway in his segment “A Closer Look.”




Seth Meyers mocked President Trump on “Late Night.“
 
Late Night With Seth Meyers




“The important thing is that three million people died in the Bowling Green massacre, and they are all still registered to vote,” Mr. Meyers said.
And Conan O’Brien somehow got his hands on recordings of phone calls between Mr. Trump and his predecessor, Barack Obama:




President Trump calling Barack Obama for Valentine’s Day advice.
 
Team Coco




Presidents, Now and Then
On “The Daily Show,” Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota and Trevor Noah discussed Mr. Ellison’s early prediction of a Trump victory, 
and Mr. Ellison sprinkled in some mild criticism of Hillary Clinton.


Photo














Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota, left, and Trevor Noah on “The Daily Show.”




Credit

            Comedy Central        






ELLISON:
 Michael Moore called it. Van Jones called it. People saw it coming. I mean, look, you’ve got to be talking about the issues that are pressing for American working people, and you’ve got to be talking directly to them as well, and I don’t think we were really doing much of either one. And so it came up and hit us really hard. I mean, you’ve got to campaign in Wisconsin.


NOAH:
 Yes.


ELLISON:
 You know, in Kenosha, Wisconsin, they used to have $25-an-hour jobs. Plant went down, left, and now folks are hoping to work at the Amazon plant for $13. And they’re just having tough times. And this is going on all over the country, Midwest, South. And if you’re not speaking to that, you’re not speaking to them, and it leaves a billionaire who has always abused workers able to run right in there, and that’s just what happened.
Mr. Colbert 
asked Paul Giamatti
, the acclaimed star of the “John Adams” mini-series on HBO, if there was any correlation between the second president of the United States and the 45th.
GIAMATTI:
 Oh sure. I mean, they were both sort of feisty chaps. You know, they both sort of didn’t take anything sitting down. You know, Adams did this whole Alien and Sedition Act. He was the guy who signed the Alien and Sedition Act, which was to make it, to keep the French out, at that point. So we have him to thank that the French didn’t overrun us.




What We’re Excited About on Tuesday Night


Photo














John Oliver, left, and Stephen Colbert on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” last July.




Credit

            Scott Kowalchyk/CBS        






John Oliver sits down with Mr. Colbert in the run-up to the fourth season of Mr. Oliver’s show, “Last Week Tonight,” which begins Sunday. Both comedians are “Daily Show” alums and have been among the most aggressive late-night hosts targeting Mr. Trump.
Will Arnett will be promoting “The Lego Batman Movie” on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Your humble writer is interested in this mostly 
so we can find out when “Arrested Development” is coming back
.




Do you like this feature? What do you want to see here? Let us know: 
thearts@nytimes.com.






Continue reading the main story














We’re interested in your feedback on this page. 
Tell us what you think.




























































What's Next






Loading...




















Go to Home Page »




Site Index




The New York Times












Site Index Navigation






News






World






U.S.






Politics






N.Y.






Business






Tech






Science






Health






Sports






Education






Obituaries






Today's Paper






Corrections










Opinion






Today's Opinion






Op-Ed Columnists






Editorials






Contributing Writers






Op-Ed Contributors






Opinionator






Letters






Sunday Review






Taking Note






Room for Debate






Public Editor






Video: Opinion










Arts






Today's Arts






Art & Design






Books






Dance






Movies






Music






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Television






Theater






Video: Arts










Living






Automobiles






Crossword






Food






Education






Fashion & Style






Health






Jobs






Magazine






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Real Estate






T Magazine






Travel






Weddings & Celebrations










Listings & More






Classifieds






Tools & Services






Times Topics






Public Editor






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Blogs






Multimedia






Photography






Video






NYT Store






Times Journeys






Subscribe






Manage My Account










Subscribe




Subscribe






Home Delivery








Digital Subscriptions








Times Insider








Crossword










Email Newsletters






Alerts






Gift Subscriptions






Corporate Subscriptions






Education Rate










Mobile Applications






Replica Edition


















Site Information Navigation







                    © 
2017
 The New York Times Company






Home


Search


Accessibility concerns? Email us at 
accessibility@nytimes.com
. We would love to hear from you.


Contact Us


Work With Us


Advertise


Your Ad Choices


Privacy


Terms of Service


Terms of Sale








Site Information Navigation




Site Map


Help


Site Feedback


Subscriptions






































