









































































































Toggle
Subscribe
Search
Fashion
Entertainment
Beauty
My Life
Wellness
21 Under 21
Toggle
Close
Submit
Fashion
Entertainment
Beauty
My Life
Wellness
Insider
Log In
Register
Subscribe
Sign Up for newsletter
Subscribe
Sign up for our newsletter
Email
Enter your birthday to complete
Month of birth
Month
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Day of birth
Day
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
Year of birth
Sexual Health + Identity
Betsy DeVos Confirmation Hearings Spark Title IX Concerns
See why Betsy DeVos’s confirmation hearings are worrying to those concerned with campus sexual assault and protecting Title IX.
Jennifer Gerson Uffalussy
Jan 18, 2017 2:11PM EST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
facebook dialog
Pinterest
Getty Images
Tuesday was the confirmation hearing for President-elect Donald Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos. During the hearing, DeVos — whose family foundation 
has made donations
 to the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), an organization’s whose mission is to “defend and sustain individual rights at America’s colleges and universities” — was 
asked
 by Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) about whether she would uphold the 
2011 Title IX guidance
 as it relates to campus sexual assault.
First, some background on the Title IX guidance to which Casey was referring. In 2011, the Department of Education 
released official guidance
 that interpreted Title IX’s bar on sex discrimination to mean that colleges and universities 
must
 play a role in combating sexual assault on campus. This guidance outlines several key requirements for what must — again, 
must
 — be included in a school’s procedures in responding to sexual violence, including the preponderance of evidence for the evidentiary standard (that is, that a school needs to investigate if the evidence indicates that it’s more likely than not that sexual violence occurred) in how a school responds to a complaint. The guidance also outlines protocols to ensure provisions in policies for confidential reporting, and the mandating of issuing notices to students, parents, and employees about a school’s specific procedures for filing such a complaint (including exactly where you go at an institution and to whom you file such a complaint).  
And while this new guidance was universally applauded by advocates of survivors of campus sexual violence, FIRE responded differently. In 2016, the group moved to 
sponsor a lawsuit
 against the Obama administration to see the guidance overturned. The plaintiff in the suit is a student at the University of Virginia’s law school who was accused and found guilty of sexual misconduct by the university — and he says that if it weren’t for the 2011 guidance, he would not have been found responsible for the allegations brought against him. FIRE has also historically offered representation to students accused of campus assault — but not the survivors of assault — as a means of guaranteeing those individuals fair representation during the adjudication process.
Which is why when DeVos was asked about upholding “that 2011 Title IX guidance as it relates to sexual assault on campus,” her answer was pretty shocking: “Senator, I know that there&apos;s a lot of conflicting ideas and opinions around that guidance — and if confirmed I would look forward to working with you and your colleagues and understand the range of opinion and understand the issues from the higher-ed institutions that are charged with resolving these and addressing them and I would look forward to working together to find some resolutions,” DeVos said.
When Casey pushed DeVos for a yes or no answer regarding whether or not she would uphold the 2011 guidance, she replied, “It would be premature for me to do that today.”
DeVos then went on to address Casey’s follow-up question regarding FIRE’s 
support of a bill
, the SAFE Campus Act, that would require a victim of campus sexual assault to go to a police department to file a complaint of sexual violence in order for the school to also investigate, and thus begin the process of ensuring that appropriate accommodations for the student survivor are implemented. This kind of “mandatory reporting” legislation effectively undermines the protections afforded to a student by Title IX by making those protections contingent on a survivor’s willingness to report assault to law enforcement, whether or not they decide to press legal charges against the accused. And mandatory reporting laws can penalize survivors even further by saying that merely being a student at an academic institution is not enough to be guaranteed the rights afforded by Title IX that are intended to protect against discrimination, including sexual violence, at academic institutions.  
“FIRE is a group that tried to protect the rights of individuals,” explains Ulrich Boser, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, to 
Teen Vogue
. “And when it comes to sexual assault accusations, they have been protecting the rights of men accused of sexual assault to ensure that they have the right to defend themselves. While we clearly do need due process and the accused need defense, the Obama administration has been very thoughtful in making sure that colleges pursue strongly any accusations of sexual assault. The Obama administration has tried to come down on the side of helping women who are victims of sexual assault — and [DeVos] has signaled that she’s more interested in protecting the rights of those accused.”
FIRE has also 
criticized
 California&apos;s mandatory consent — or "Yes Means Yes" — law as a "challenge" to due process. 
In a 
statement
, FIRE notes, “FIRE has received donations from the Dick and Betsy DeVos Family Foundation. Following Betsy DeVos’ nomination for Secretary of Education, some have suggested that this support for FIRE’s work in defense of campus rights is troubling. This is disappointing. Protecting civil liberties on campus is not, and must not become, a partisan issue. ... The basic protections for which FIRE argues — the right to the active participation of counsel; the right to see the evidence in one’s case and to meaningfully question witnesses; and the right to an impartial tribunal, among others — benefit all parties and do not impede the pursuit of justice. Outside of the campus context, nobody would argue that reducing due process protections, including the burden of proof, is necessary to secure a just outcome. “
DeVos also told Casey in the hearing that, when it comes to retaining the present law regarding the standard of evidence used in how educational environments respond to accusations of sexual violence, “If confirmed, I look forward to understanding the past actions, and the current situation, better and to ensuring the intent of the law is actually carried out in a way that recognizes both victims, the rights of the victims, as well as those who are accused as well.” 
In other words, DeVos, the woman who Trump would like to see head up the Department of Education, doesn’t seem to be quite sure if she’s down with ensuring that victims of campus sexual assault are protected by Title IX, the federal law that explicitly protects against gender- and sex-based discrimination in educational environments. And she seems even 
less
 sure if sexual assault should really qualify as the kind of sex-based discrimination Title IX was designed to protect against. 
[Know Your IX](www.knowyourix.org], a national survivor-led organization that empowers students to end gender-based violence in schools, issued the following statement in response to DeVos’s remarks about Title IX at the hearing: 
“One in five college women are sexually assaulted during their time on
campus. This pervasive violence not only puts young people’s safety at
risk but also undermines their access to education: victims often see
their grades drop, take long leaves of absence from school to avoid
their attacker, or are forced to drop out entirely. Yet
Secretary-Designate Betsy DeVos said in her HELP Committee hearing
that it would be “premature” to commit to maintaining the Education
Department’s pivotal 2011 guidance clarifying schools’ longstanding
obligations under Title IX to support student survivors in accessing
education in the wake of violence.
As young people whose own educations have been disrupted by
gender-based violence in school, we know firsthand that the
Department’s enforcement of Title IX has helped countless survivors
complete their educations. Before the Department turned its attention
to enforcing survivors’ Title IX rights, schools routinely ignored
their rights and swept sexual assault under the rug. If Ms. DeVos
revokes the Department’s critical work, she would make it harder for
students to learn their rights—and easier for schools to violate them.
If the next Secretary of Education moves backward on Title IX, she
will make schools far less safe for women, LGBTQ, and other
marginalized students. We hope Ms. DeVos will change course and come
to understand just how critical the Department’s Title IX enforcement
is for students across the country. However, if she continues to fail
to commit to enforcing Title IX, we believe her unwillingness to
protect the civil rights of sexual assault survivors should be
disqualifying.”
“[DeVos] thinks sexual assault is wrong, but she refuses to admit that it’s an issue on college campuses,” says Boser. “We can debate how to solve this problem, but the numbers are very clear in showing that colleges have not figured out how to deal with rape culture. The left and the right can debate policies and approaches, but the lack of acknowledgment that this is a problem should be worrisome to women and worrisome to men.”
Samantha Harris, FIRE’s vice president of policy research, tells 
Teen Vogue
 that the situation is more nuanced: “FIRE argued that the SAFE Campus Act should be amended for non-punitive accommodations — not that colleges shouldn’t do anything, but that colleges should not be adjudicating guilt or innocence in response to charges of rape. Schools are not well-suited to adjudicate felony claims,” Harris says, saying that such non-punitive accommodations would include things like counseling services and changes in class schedules and housing accommodations for both the victim and the accused. 
Furthermore, Harris says, the current suit that FIRE is sponsoring challenging the 2011 Title IX guidance is rooted in the organization’s belief that the guidance “imposes new substantive obligations on universities” and that under the Administrative Procedure Act, this guidance should not have been issued without first being subject to notice and comment from the constituencies impacted by it. She also adds, “It’s important for all parties involved [in campus sexual assault allegations] to have a fair and reliable process. But the notion that procedural rights are somehow incompatible with justice — I just don’t think that is the case.”
While it remains to be seen whether or not DeVos will be confirmed by Senate and how exactly she would use her role as Secretary of Education if so, we hope that all members of President-Elect Trump’s cabinet will recognize the real epidemic of campus sexual assault and commit to giving a voice to survivors.
Related:
 
Trump&apos;s Education Secretary Pick Thinks Schools Need Guns to Protect Them From "Grizzlies"
follow 
us
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Recommended 
for
 You
Follow:
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
We Heart It
Tumblr
YouTube
Google Plus
toggle social menu
Condé Nast
Condé Nast Websites
Allure
 
Ars Technica
 
Backchannel
 
Bon Appétit
 
Brides
 
Condé Nast Traveler
 
Epicurious
 
Glamour
 
Golf Digest
 
Golf World
 
GQ
 
GQ Style
 
Pitchfork
 
Self
 
Style
 
Teen Vogue
 
The New Yorker
 
The Scene
 
Vanity Fair
 
Vogue
 
W
 
Wired
 
Site Map
Contact us
Newsletter Signup
Subscriptions
In this issue
Careers
Condé Nast Store
Reprints/Permissions
Parsons x TeenVogue
Accessibility Help
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
User Agreement
 and 
Privacy Policy
 (Revised 1/2/2014).  
Teen Vogue 
may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers.  
Your California Privacy Rights
. Teen Vogue © 
2017
 Condé Nast Digital. All rights reserved. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast Digital. 
Ad Choices
.
Related
Wellness
What a Sexual Assault Survivor Wants Trump’s Pick f…
Wellness
This Hashtag Is Proof Trump Should Take Sexual Assa…
Wellness
Campus Sexual Assault Is an Epidemic — But What Are…


























