























































About Us


Contact Email:   info@buzzteller.com


Private Policy
















































Menu


Breaking




Hot Story




Latest




Top News




Top Stories




Trending




























DeVos confirmed as Education Secretary, Pence casts deciding vote








 






WASHINGTON —
 
Vice President Mike Pence cast the deciding vote in the confirmation of Betsy DeVos as Secretary of Education.   
As President of the Senate, Pence broke the 50-50 tie in favor of DeVos. A vice president breaking a tie on a Cabinet nomination would be a first in the history of the Senate, according to the Senate historian’s office.  
DeVos, a wealthy Republican donor and long-time school choice advocate, has emerged as one of Trump’s most controversial Cabinet picks. Labor unions bitterly contested DeVos’ nomination, fearing that she will destroy public education by promoting charter schools and publicly funded voucher programs for private schools. Civil rights activists also fear she will do little to advocate for LGBT students and children with special needs.  
Trump stood behind his nominee, accusing Democrats of fighting progress and change.  
“Senate Dems protest to keep the failed status quo,” Trump tweeted Tuesday before the vote. “Betsy DeVos is a reformer, and she is going to be a great Education Sec. for our kids!”  










Two GOP senators, Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, announced plans to oppose DeVos’ confirmation.  
After an all-night speaking marathon by Democrats, Sen. Patty Murray of Washington state, the top Democrat on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee urged her Republican colleagues to vote against DeVos, calling her unqualified and saying that she will be a poor advocate for low income families and students with disabilities.  
“We are just within one vote of sending this nomination back and asking the president to send us a nominee that can be supported by members on both sides of the isle, that can set a vision that can fight for public schools, that can be that champion,” Murray said.  
Emotions ran high ahead of the vote as constituents jammed senators’ phone lines with calls and protesters gathered outside the Capitol, including one person in a grizzly bear costume to ridicule DeVos’ comment during her confirmation hearing that some schools might want guns to protect against grizzlies. Her opponents also charge that DeVos has no experience to run public schools, having never attended one or sent her children to a public school.  
“I am not just voting no, I am voting no way,” Democratic Senator Chris Coons Delaware said on the Senate floor.  
But Republicans accused Democrats of slow-walking DeVos and other qualified nominees to placate liberal base voters who still haven’t come to terms with Trump’s election.  
“It seems this gridlock and opposition has far less to do with the nominees actually before us than the man who nominated them,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. “Enough is enough.”  
Republicans hope to confirm a series of other divisive nominees this week: Alabama Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions as attorney general, GOP Rep. Tom Price of Georgia as health secretary and financier Steven Mnuchin as treasury secretary.  
In each case Democrats intend to use the maximum time allowed under the Senate’s arcane rules to debate the nominations, which may result in a late-night votes this week and delay Mnuchin’s approval until Saturday.  
Republicans complain that previous presidents have been able to put their Cabinets in place more quickly. Democrats say it’s Trump’s fault because many of his nominees have complicated financial arrangements and ethical entanglements they claim they have not had enough time to dissect.   
The clash over nominees has created a toxic atmosphere in the Senate that mirrors the tense national mood since Trump’s election, with Democrats boycotting committee votes and Republicans unilaterally jamming nominees through committee without Democrats present. Yet there is little suspense about the final outcome on any of the nominees because Democrats themselves changed Senate rules when they were in the majority several years ago so that Cabinet nominees can now be approved with a simple majority, not the 60 votes previously required.












Source link 


Related










 






Tweet


























Pin It




Related Posts
 




 


McDonald's and Chicago airport workers plan to strike in push for $15 wage












 


Pac-12 basketball: No. 13 Oregon puts an end to No. 5 Arizona's 15-game winning streak












 


Update on: Today in Entertainment: Debut of Debbie Reynolds-Carrie Fisher documentary pushed up
















 


















Popular Posts
 




								The Latest: Avalanche closes highway near Tahoe, caves roof	
			




 








								Italy crews find 3 puppies alive under avalanche-hit hotel	
			




 








								Kristen Stewart directed a film about her past breakups (and maybe Robert Pattinson)	
			




 








								Chelsea Clinton Defends Barron Trump After Social Media Bullying	
			




 








								NYDN attempts to uncover what 'The Last Jedi' means	
			




 






 








BT Stats
Live Traffic Stats
 
















BT
 Copyright © 2017.




info@buzzteller.com


