





Skip to main content






















DONATE


SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTER










Search form




Search 












 


















Wednesday, February 22, 2017








Home


World


War & Peace


Economy


Climate


Rights


Solutions


U.S.


Canada


















 
Senate Confirms DeVos as Secretary of Education


 




 
0
 Comments
For Immediate Release


Tuesday, February 7, 2017 - 12:45pm
Dēmos
Contact: 
212.633.1405 | 
info@demos.org
Senate Confirms DeVos as Secretary of Education


WASHINGTON - 
In the closest confirmation vote for a Secretary of Education to date, Betsy DeVos was confirmed by the narrow margin of 51-50, with the historic tie breaking vote coming from Vice President Mike Pence. Following the decision, Mark Huelsman, Senior Policy Analyst and higher education expert at Demos, issued the follow statement:


 


“The unprecedented level of uncertainty shown by both Democrats and Republicans surrounding Betsy DeVos’ ability to serve as Secretary of Education should have been enough to disqualify her from assuming this position.


 


“In the weeks preceding this vote, legislators saw an outpouring of opposition to her nomination from their constituents. However, by choosing to confirm DeVos, the Senate has chosen to ignore the real warning signs posed by her inability to commit to protecting students and borrowers, fight for student aid and debt relief programs, and articulate a vision of how to make college affordable for all Americans.


 


“While we have no assurances that DeVos will champion the change our education system truly needs, we will continue to advocate for policies that support affordable higher education and equal access for all students.”
###
A multi-issue national organization, Demos combines research, policy development, and advocacy to influence public debates and catalyze change. We publish books, reports, and briefing papers that illuminate critical problems and advance innovative solutions; work at both the national and state level with advocates and policymakers to promote reforms; help to build the capacity and skills of key progressive constituencies; project our values into the media by promoting Demos Fellows and staff in print, broadcast, and Internet venues; and host public events that showcase new ideas and leading progressive voices.
Organization Links


Dēmos
Share This Article






Related Articles










The For-Profit Presidency, Month One














John Kasich is a Nitwit














'Callous Attack': Trump DOJ Drops Protections for Transgender Students














Watch: Protesters Block Betsy DeVos From First Visit to Public School












More in: 
Rights
, 
U.S.
, 
Betsy Devos
, 
Demos
, 
Education






Top Comments






(Click to see more comments or to join the conversation)
















Today's Views










 
 


 
Kathy Kelly
 


 
Friendship in Defiance of War
 
 




 
 


 
Julie Chinitz
 


 
The Republican Bid to Kill the ACA Is a Trojan Horse
 
 




 
 


 
Bill Quigley
 


 
Ten Examples of Direct Resistance to Stop Government Raids
 
 




 
 


 
Michael Moore
 


 
Do These 10 Things, And Trump Will Be Toast
 
 




 
 


 
Les Leopold
 


 
The Constitutional Apocalypse
 
 




 
 


 
Ira Chernus
 


 
Why We Protest: A Message for Middle America
 
 




 
 


 
Tom Gallagher
 


 
The Stakes in the Race for Democratic National Committee Chair
 
 




 
 


 
Amanda Baran
 


 
Donald Trump’s War on Immigrant Women
 
 




 
 


 
Nnimmo Bassey
 


 
System Change Will Not Be Negotiated
 
 




 
 


 
Ben Manski
 


 
DHS Immigration Memo Underscores Urgent Need for National Guard Reform
 
 




 
 


 
John Boik
 


 
An Economy of Meaning – or Bust
 
 




 
 


 
Ralph Nader
 


 
Restricting People’s Use of Their Courts
 
 







    More Views  




 
















News That Matters




















 




Sorry, Mr. President, There's Nothing "So-Called" About These Angry Crowds
 








 




RESIST Day #34: What You Can Do Today
 








 




In National First, City Council Unanimously Passes Trump Impeachment Resolution
 








 




Reclaiming Statue of Liberty's Message, Activists Drop 'Refugees Welcome' Banner
 










 












 




Judge Stops Texas From Cutting Medicaid Funds for Planned Parenthood
 








 




"Forced Removal Isn't Just in History Books... It's Happening Tomorrow"
 








 




"Love That Doesn't Risk Isn't Love": Amid Immigration Chaos, Sanctuaries Flourish
 








 




Without One Mention of Climate Change, Scott Pruitt Greets EPA Employees
 








 




'Medicare for All' Only Way for Trump to Keep Healthcare Promises
 








 




Iowa Bill Would Force Universities to Hire Right-Wing Professors
 













    More News  




 






Further










 
Yearning/ Dying To Breathe Free
 


 
 


 
A group of self-described "everyday people" hung a massive banner across the foot of Lady Liberty Tuesday declaring "Refugees Welcome" - an act and sentiment, immeasurably ironically, radical enough in these dystopian times that park officials are now seeking the "suspects." The day before, meanwhile, the bodies of at least 74 refugees trying to reach Europe washed up on the Libyan shore; each, critics say, is "a testament to our indifference."
 


 
Read More...
 
 







    More Further  




 
















Sign Up for Newsletter












 










 
















Connect With Us 
























About Common Dreams


Our Mission:
To inform. To inspire.
To ignite change for the common good.
Common Dreams has been providing breaking news & views for the progressive community since 1997. We are independent, non-profit, advertising-free and 100% reader supported.


About Common Dreams
Key Staff
Writers' Guidelines
The Commons - Community Guidelines
Privacy Policy
Jobs
 








Contact Us


Common Dreams
P.O. Box 443
Portland, ME 04112-0443
USA


via Email:


Editor
News Tips?
Article Submissions
News Release Submissions
Webmaster / General Info


207.775.0488 (voice)
 207.775.0489 (fax)
 








Common Dreams brings you the news that matters.


DONATE
 




Sign up for Newsletter


Click to Sign Up
 




Connect With Us


















 
 












