









Log In


 






Daily Kos


 



        Community
      
 


















You voted against Hillary because you got CONNED - brilliant Facebook post.






Feb 05, 2017 12:27pm PST


      by
      
GoGoGoEverton




990
        
801




Please 
log in
 or 
sign up
 to continue.






Had to share this one, from 
Ben Mallicote 
on Facebook:








If I can find a transcription, I'll post it.


Brilliant response to anyone who voted for Trump, or justified not voting for Hillary because reasons. Please, PLEASE never make this selfish mistake again.


















Sunday, Feb 5, 2017 ·  9:15:19 PM +00:00


          ·
          
GoGoGoEverton




Here's the transcript, thanks Radiowalla!


















Ben Mallicote




February 3 at 10:42am
 · 










You voted for Trump because Clinton was going to be in Wall Street's pocket. Trump wants to repeal Dodd-Frank and eliminate the Fiduciary Rule, letting Wall Street return to its pre-2008 ways.


You voted for Trump because of Clinton's emails. The Trump administration is running its own private email server.


You voted for Trump because you thought the Clinton Foundation was "pay for play." Trump has refused to wall off his businesses from his administration, and personally profits from payments from foreign governments.




You voted for Trump because of Clinton's role in Benghazi. Trump ordered the Yemen raid without adequate intel, and tweeted about "FAKE NEWS" while Americans died as a result of his carelessness.


You voted for Trump because Clinton didn't care about "the little guy." Trump's cabinet is full of billionaires, and he took away your health insurance so he could give them a multi-million-dollar tax break.


You voted for Trump because he was going to build a wall and Mexico was going to pay for it. American consumers will pay for the wall via import tariffs.


You voted for Trump because Clinton was going to get us into a war. Trump has provoked our enemies, alienated our allies, and given ISIS a decade's worth of recruiting material.


You voted for Trump because Clinton didn't have the stamina to do the job. Trump hung up on the Australian Prime Minister during a 5pm phone call because "it was at the end of a long day and he was tired and fatigue was setting in."


You voted for Trump because foreign leaders wouldn't "respect" Clinton. Foreign leaders, both friendly and hostile, are openly mocking Trump.


You voted for Trump because Clinton lies and "he tells it like it is." Trump and his administration lie with a regularity and brazenness that can only be described as shocking.


Let's be honest about what really happened.


The reality is that you voted for Trump because you got conned. Trump is a grifter and the American people were the mark. Now that you know the score, quit insisting the con-man is on your side.




















 Reply


 
16


 Flag


























Display 990 Comments








990 comments










990 comments




















x








 








View Full Site

          |
          
Helpdesk


 


©2017 Kos Media


 


























 












×


Close












Close






Close


Save changes




























