





































































Close Navigation 


Home 


Topics 


Livestream 


Weather 


   -   Closings


   -   Sky Cams


Sports 


   -   5th Quarter


   -   Local Scores


   -   National Scores


About Us 


   -   Advertise With WDTV


   -   Closed Captioning


   -   Find us on Cable


   -   Station Jobs


Events 


Funerals 


Local Jobs 


Livestream 


Livestream 2 


Newsletter 




MomsEveryday 






Local X 






Submit Photos and Videos 




Features


Contests


Lottery


Money


Mr. Food


Monday's Most Wanted












Close Navigation 






















Topics


Close Navigation 


Back 


Accidents


AP


Community


Consumer


Crime


Economy


Education


Election


Environment


Fire


Forecast


Health


Health Alert


Holidays


International


Investigation


Local


Military


Music


National


Offbeat


Pets


Politics


Road Conditions


Safety


Scam Alert


Schools


State


Technology


Traffic


Trending


Weather


White House Coverage








































































60°F
 Broken Clouds


67°
 
52°


Bridgeport, WV






























 
Toggle navigation














 
Broken Clouds 60°F








 News


 Weather


 Sports


 Local Jobs


 Livestream
















 






































Home


Politics


Article










Betsy DeVos confirmed as education secretary; vice president casts historic tie-breaking vote




















Posted: 
Tue 12:35 PM, Feb 07, 2017


 | 




Updated: Tue 1:40 PM, Feb 07, 2017 




































WASHINGTON (CNN) -- 
 Vice President Mike Pence cast a historic tie-breaking vote Tuesday to confirm Betsy DeVos as the next education secretary after the Senate was evenly divided over the controversial pick.






Sen. Lamar Alexander rejected a Democrat's request for a second hearing with Betsy DeVos on Monday, sparing Trump's pick for secretary of education from what would surely be a contentious hearing.




The 51-50 vote ends Trump's toughest confirmation battle yet. Senate Democrats debated through the night and into Tuesday morning in a last-ditch attempt to derail DeVos, buoyed by support from Republican Sens. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine.


Throughout the fight, Democrats argued they needed "Just one more!" to lure away another Republican vote. But Senate Republican leaders succeeded in delivering a victory to Trump in a confirmation fight that very few expected to become as tough as it did.


DeVos' poor performance in her confirmation hearing -- punctuated by her suggestion that a school in Wyoming might want to have guns on premises to protect against grizzly bears -- contributed to roaring anger among public school supporters and teachers unions. Even before her hearing, critics pointed to DeVos's lack of experience with public schools and her bankrolling of efforts like school vouchers that could take money from public institutions.








Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer voiced his displeasure with the vote moments after she was confirmed, tweeting, "Today @VP Mike Pence did something no one else has ever done: cast the tie breaking vote on his own cabinet nominee."


Devos tweeted after the vote, "I appreciate the Senate's diligence & am honored to serve as @usedgov Secretary. Let's improve options & outcomes for all US students."


Sen. Chris Murphy told CNN earlier Tuesday that DeVos seemed to have no knowledge of the federal law that protects students with disabilities.


"You put those two things together, lack of compassion for what's happened to places like Sandy Hook and an inability to just understand the basic law around vulnerable students and it was clear at the end of that hearing that this was someone who shouldn't be the secretary of education," the Connecticut Democrat said.


DeVos' Senate vote comes after a dramatic 24 hours of protest from Democrats inside and outside the Capitol that lasted through the night, into Tuesday morning, with Democratic senators taking shifts in the Senate arguing against DeVos.


The delay tactics have succeeded in stalling many of Trump's most important Cabinet picks -- but Senate Republican leaders promised Monday to get votes for four nominees this week: DeVos, Health and Human Services nominee Tom Price, Treasury pick Steven Mnuchin and attorney general nominee, Sen. Jeff Sessions.


Meanwhile, with each passing day, more questions have been raised about Trump's Cabinet picks. Labor Department nominee Andrew Puzder admitted Monday to hiring an undocumented immigrant as a housekeeper.


But Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn promised to overcome Democratic tactics with long hours at the Capitol -- including the possibility of working through Saturday.


"We'll be burning the midnight oil," Cornyn said Monday.


The-CNN-Wire
™ & © 2017 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.
























 FBI warns of phone scam that uses the FBI's name to threaten arrest 


























 Related Stories






Dems focus fire on DeVos, vulnerable Trump picks


Manchin announces plans to vote against Secretary of Education nominee Betsy Devos 


DeVos hangs in balance before tight Senate vote


Betsy DeVos clears another hurdle in early morning Senate vote


Locals urge Capito to vote against DeVos




























 












































Weather


Closings


Sky Cams






Sports


5th Quarter


Local Scores


National Scores






About Us


Advertise With WDTV


Closed Captioning


Find us on Cable


Station Jobs






Events






Funerals






Local Jobs












Terms of Use


Privacy Policy/YOUR CALIFORNIA PRIVACY RIGHTS


Advertising


EEO Statement


Public Inspection File












Copyright © 2002-2017 - Designed by Gray Digital Media - Powered by Clickability
		
																							wdtv.com/a?a=413048313
									


































































×


Online Public Information File






Click Here to access the online Public Inspection File


Viewers with disabilities can get assistance accessing this station's FCC Public Inspection File by contacting the station with the information listed below. Questions or concerns relating to the accessibility of the FCC's online public file system should be directed to the FCC at 888-225-5322, 888-835-5322 (TTY), or 
fccinfo@fcc.gov
.




Station Contact Info:


Phone Number:
304-848-5000


Fax Numbers:
(304) 842-7501 Business/Sales
(304) 842-4604 News


Address:
WDTV 5 Television Drive
Bridgeport, WV 26330








Close










