





























NYMag.com


Daily Intelligencer


Vulture


The Cut


Science of Us


Select All


Grub Street


The Strategist






Log In


Register










My Account


My Profile


My Comments


My Reviews


My Friends


Sign Out










FOLLOW:


Facebook


Twitter


Instagram




























 


Subscribe
 to New York Magazine


Give a Gift
 Subscription of New York Magazine


Digital Edition
 of New York Magazine






Like Us


Follow Us




Get the Newsletter






Newsletter


Get Daily Intelligencerʼs Top Stories Delivered Daily








Enter your email






Thank you for signing up!


An error occurred. Please try again.






Close the newsletter signup modal.










Subscribe
 to New York Magazine












 
NYMag.com


 
Daily Intelligencer


 
Vulture


 
The Cut


 
Science of Us


 
Select All


 
Grub Street


 
Bedford & Bowery






Like Us


Follow Us




Get the Newsletter






Newsletter


Get Daily Intelligencerʼs Top Stories Delivered Daily








Enter your email






Thank you for signing up!


An error occurred. Please try again.






Close the newsletter signup modal.










































Popular on NYMag.com






















Ad will collapse in
      
 seconds…
    


CLOSE






























































February 7, 2017


02/07/2017


12:26 a.m.


Trump Reportedly Upset That Sean Spicer Was Portrayed by a Woman on 
SNL


By 




Margaret Hartmann














Share




Share




Tweet




Share




Pin It




Email




Comment






Print
























Photo: Getty Images, NBC








Aside from the reports that President Trump continues to watch far too much cable news, the biggest takeaway from the near-daily leaks from the White House is that Sean Spicer’s job is absolutely terrible. From the start, there were rumors that Trump 
wanted a woman
 to serve as White House press secretary, but was forced to settle for the former Republican National Committee communications director. To make matters worse, Spicer has taken on two jobs, acting as communications director in addition to press secretary.


Then, during his first full day on the job, Spicer was transformed into a meme when he 
fumed at the press
 for misreporting the size of Trump’s inauguration crowd. Trump reportedly demanded that Spicer do the press conference, then 
complained
 about Spicer’s demeanor and ill-fitting suit. Over the weekend, the New York 
Times
 reported that the president 
makes time
 to watch Spicer’s daily press briefings then summons Spicer to critique his performance.


Now Spicer is said to be in trouble for being hilariously spoofed by Melissa McCarthy on 
Saturday Night Live —
 and not because he was portrayed as an unhinged, furious purveyor of “alternative facts.” 
Politico
 
reports
, “More than being lampooned as a press secretary who makes up facts, it was Spicer’s portrayal by a woman that was most problematic in the president’s eyes, according to sources close to him.” A top Trump donor added, “Trump doesn’t like his people to look weak.”


On Monday Spicer said he’s 
fine with the skit
, though he told 
Politico
 he’d “much rather have the focus be on the president’s agenda and the success he’s having.” While the president habitually attacks 
SNL
 on Twitter, he had nothing to say this weekend. That was reportedly “seen internally as a sign of how uncomfortable it made the White House feel.”


If true, the report adds another bizarre layer to how the president views gender roles. While he may have wanted a woman to fill Spicer’s role, multiple reports suggest that he’s particularly irked by women who 
stand up to him
, or generally behave in a 
manner he disapproves of
. On Sunday the New York 
Times
 
noted
 that while McCarthy’s comedic talent is what makes the skit so funny, seeing the president’s spokesman skewered by a woman gave it an extra edge:


While her gender isn’t the center of her performance, it matters. There’s a bit of an extra bite in a woman lampooning the spokesperson of a president who once bragged about grabbing women’s genitals, and who was reportedly 
moved to rage
 last month when attendance at women’s protests around the world dwarfed attendance at his inauguration. Add to that the fact that President Trump reportedly wants his female staffers to 
“dress like women,”
 and Melissa McCarthy dressing like a man to play his press secretary feels like a particularly astute way to needle the White House.


In light of 
Politico
’s report, people are clamoring for classic Trump nemesis Rosie O’Donnell to replace the Grim Reaper as 
SNL
’s Steve Bannon. O’Donnell said she’s game:




@calvininsf
 - i am here to serve - alec has trump - melissa has spice - i would need a few days to prepare - so if called - i will be ready
— ROSIE (@Rosie) 
February 7, 2017








available - if called i will serve !!! 
https://t.co/LT84EJjfsw
— ROSIE (@Rosie) 
February 7, 2017






SNL
 gave us 
Larry David as Bernie Sanders
, and Alec Baldwin is hosting the show next weekend. A week from now, Spicer might not be the only White House aide taking flak for a spoof he has no control over.






Politico








Tags:


sean spicer
melissa mccarthy
snl


Trump Upset That a Woman Played Sean Spicer on 
SNL
: Report






Share 
on 
Facebook






Tweet 
this 
Story
















 


Top Stories
Rand Paul Has Become Trump’s Most Loyal Toady
These Republicans Faced ‘So-Called Angry Crowds’ at Tuesday’s Town Halls
Donald Trump, Pseudoauthoritarian






























Most Viewed Stories














All the Famous People Wear This Invisible Underwear












Trump Is Unpopular, But Not As Unpopular As Liberals Think












This Is Us
 Recap: The First and the Last












Cate Blanchett Lip-Synced ‘You Don’t Own Me’ at a Drag Show, Giving the People Exactly What They Want












What, Exactly, Are Melania and Ivanka Trump Trying to Sell?












A Conversation With YouTube’s Favorite 10-Year-Old Communist Vlogger












Ask Polly: I Overshared My Way Out of a Boyfriend!












John McCain the Republican vs. John McCain the Patriot












Rand Paul Has Become Trump’s Most Loyal Stooge












What It’s Like to Live in a Trump Building




































Most Popular Video On Daily Intelligencer


The Wildest Moments From Donald Trump’s Press Conference 


























































Latest News from Daily Intelligencer








11:52 a.m.


Republicans Accuse Protesters of Organizing for Political Change


Conservatives are now arguing that protests are illegitimate if they’re planned in advance by activists.






10:25 a.m.


Iowa Legislator Proposes Hiring Quotas for Republican College Faculty


After decades of conservative whining about liberal domination of college faculties, a legislator has finally come up with a solution.






9:11 a.m.


Rand Paul Has Become Trump’s Most Loyal Toady


The task of suppressing dissent against the president’s authoritarian tendencies falls to the GOP’s libertarian.






8:00 a.m.


What It’s Like to Live in a Trump Building


The protesters, the new frisson, and the extremely clean floors.












6:27 a.m.


These Republicans Faced ‘So-Called Angry Crowds’ at Tuesday’s Town Halls


While scores of GOP lawmakers are avoiding their constituents, a handful attended packed public events back home.






1:00 a.m.


Timing of Trump Immigration Memos Undermines Cabinet Members’ Visit to Mexico


They were released just as Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly headed south.






Yesterday at 5:21 p.m.


Trump’s Immigration Policies Have Already Taken a Toll on the U.S. Economy


The American tourism industry is still reeling from Trump’s travel ban.






Yesterday at 5:15 p.m.


A ‘Refugees Welcome’ Banner Was Hanging on the Statue of Liberty Today


Challenging Trump’s travel ban.






Yesterday at 5:12 p.m.


When Will Trump Announce a Policy Agenda? Maybe Never.


Trump has an opportunity to lay out a detailed policy agenda on February 28 to a joint session of Congress — which needs the guidance. But will he?






Yesterday at 2:42 p.m.


Administration Rattles Sabers at Undocumented Immigrants


Maybe the plan is to deport millions, or frighten the undocumented into self-deporting. Either way, a big shift in immigration policy is underway.
























Yesterday at 1:49 p.m.


Malaysia Can’t Say for Sure If Kim Jong-un’s Half-Brother Was Poisoned


Authorities are awaiting lab results while North Korea accuses Malaysia of “mangling” the autopsy.






Yesterday at 1:40 p.m.


Trump Is Unpopular, But Not As Unpopular As Liberals Think


Are Trump’s historically low approval ratings high enough for Republicans to avoid a 2018 disaster? Probably so, but there’s not much room for error.






Yesterday at 1:25 p.m.


Trump to Tackle Deficit With Imaginary Growth, Elimination of Popular Programs


The president is poised to pay for his tax cuts by baselessly assuming 3 percent economic growth and eliminating public broadcasting. 






Yesterday at 12:09 p.m.


Donald Trump, Pseudoauthoritarian


Assessing the not-so-great dictator one month into his tenure.






Yesterday at 11:02 a.m.


Trump Manages to Denounce Rise of Anti-Semitic Incidents Without Taking Offense


Finally abandoning a habit of attacking reporters who asked him about anti-Semitic incidents, Trump simply addressed the subject appropriately.






Yesterday at 10:56 a.m.


Selfie-Taking Teens Rescued After Falling Through Ice in Central Park Pond


No one suffered life-threatening injuries.






Yesterday at 8:00 a.m.


Sports May Never Be a Politics-Free Zone Again


Patriots shun the White House. Sports stars turn ESPN into MSNBC. And brands smell the commercial potential in political rage.






Yesterday at 5:27 a.m.


11 People Went Through JFK Security Without Being Screened


It took the TSA two hours to report the accidental security breach to Port Authority police.






Yesterday at 4:10 a.m.


President Trump Faces Pressure to Address Rash of Threats Against Jewish Centers


Ivanka Trump and the White House issued statements, but the president has not discussed the incidents specifically.






Yesterday at 12:23 a.m.


Eric Holder, Uber Employees to Conduct ‘Independent Review’ of Sexism Claims


The company is moving fast following harassment allegations from a former employee.




























Newsletters








Facebook








Twitter








Instagram








RSS








Feedly








Privacy


Terms


Sitemap


Media Kit


Ad Choices


About Us


Contacts


Feedback


We’re Hiring!





    © 2017, New York Media LLC.
    
View all trademarks




























LOG IN


REGISTER










Social Account


Facebook


or















              Remember Me
            


Forgot Password?










Sign up with a social account:


Facebook


Don’t worry. We will 
never
 post to your social media account without your permission.


or create an account
















Female


Male










NYMag.com may email me about new site features and special offers.








By creating an account, you agree with the 
Terms of Service
 and 
Privacy Policy
.














We’ve sent a registration confirmation email to 
.


Please follow the instructions in the email within 48 hours to complete your registration.






Forgot Your Password?


Enter your email address or username and we’ll email instructions on how to reset your password.
















This username or email is associated with a Facebook account.


Log in with your social account:


Facebook






Check Your Inbox


We’ve sent you an email with instructions on how to reset your password.






Choose a Username


Your username will appear next to your comments.










Email: 





            By creating a NYMag.com account, you agree with the 
Terms of Service
 and
            
Privacy Policy
.
          








You already have an account registered under 
. You can link your Facebook account to your existing account.












No, Sign In






Welcome! You are now a registered user of NYMag.com, TheCut.com, Vulture.com, ScienceOfUs.com and GrubStreet.com.


Want more? Subscribe to our daily newsletters.








Daily Intelligencer


Constant news updates on politics, business, media, and real estate.






Vulture


Breaking news and analysis on all the latest TV, movies, music, books, theater, and art.






The Cut


Get the latest fashion, beauty, and shopping news and recommendations.














No Thanks






We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please 
register
 again.






You are already registered. Please 
log in
.






Reset Your Password


Enter a new password




















Your password has been successfully changed.


Please 
log in
.


















