

















 








 




















Menu














Search








Search










 
 






 
 






 






 










Media
Movies




Waxword


Alonso Duralde


Steve Pond


Deal Central




Toronto Festival






Movie Reviews


Box Office


Sundance






TV




Ratings


TV Reviews






Media




Media Alley


Hollywood, D.C.






Awards




Oscars


Emmys


Golden Globes


SAG Awards






Events




The Be Conference


Events


Power Women Breakfast


ShortList


TheGrill


Awards, Foreign Screening Series






Features




OscarWrap Casey Affleck


OscarWrap La La Land


OscarWrap Palm Springs Portfolio


OscarWrap Best Song 2017


OscarWrap Hidden Figures


OscarWrap 20th Century Women


OscarWrap Dark Horses 2016


OscarWrap Moonlight


‘STRANGER THINGS’ DAVID HARBOUR


Fall TV 2016






More




Tech


Culture


Reviews


Videos


Photos


Powergrid


Sundance




















Facebook


Twitter


Instagram






Search








Search






























Budweiser’s Pro-Immigrant Super Bowl Ad Is ‘Mostly Fiction,’ Anheuser-Busch Expert Says








“Adolphus Busch did not arrive poor and struggling,” author says




Tim Kenneally
 | February 2, 2017 @ 11:09 AM










 
Budweiser
 






Budweiser’s Super Bowl ad might provide a powerful and timely message about the importance of immigration, but as far as historically accuracy goes, it falls as flat as a half-empty beer left over from last night’s rager.


At least, that’s the word from William Knoedelseder, the author of the 2014 book “Bitter Brew: The Rise and Fall of Anheuser-Busch and America’s King of Beer.”


“It’s got wonderful production values, it’s very expensive and, I think, very effective — and mostly fiction,” Knoedelseder told 
Slate
.




Also Read:
 
Budweiser's Super Bowl Spot Reminds Viewers Immigration Makes America Great (Video)




The commercial, which has gained resonance due to the current debate over President Trump’s travel ban, tells the story of Anheuser-Busch co-founder Adolphus Busch, who immigrated to the U.S. from Germany in the 1850’s.


The commercial follows Busch from his time traveling across the Atlantic, to his less than warm welcome to America, to jumping off of a flaming riverboat, to finally arriving in St. Louis to begin brewing beer.














In his interview with Slate’s Sam Adams (if that is indeed his real name), Knoedelseder took exception to the notion that Busch encountered hostility upon arriving in America.




Also Read:
 
Budweiser's Name Change Is a Total Buzz-Kill on Twitter




“Adolphus Busch did not arrive poor and struggling. He was from a fairly well-to-do, successful family. He wasn’t tremendously wealthy, but it would be highly doubtful that he encountered whatever that was at the beginning with him jumping off the boat and people shouting at him,” the author said. “He arrived with a ticket and had his own money. Unless they got a hold of some letters from his family, I don’t know where they get all that information. It’s not something that anyone that’s written about Anheuser-Busch has ever seen before.”


Knoedelseder added that German immigrants in the mid-1800s likely wouldn’t have faced anti-immigrant prejudice of the same magnitude as “the poor Irish who had to fight their way in block by block. By the time he got to St. Louis, there was a very sizable German population there. They all arrived in America with money, and deference comes with cash.”


While the ad has gained widespread attention due to current events, Budweiser vice president Ricardo Marques denied that the ad was intended as political commentary in an interview with 
Ad Week
.




Also Read:
 
Make No Mistake: Donald Trump and Steve Bannon Are the Villains in This Movie (Commentary)




“There’s really no correlation with anything else that’s happening in the country,” Marques said. “We believe this is a universal story that is very relevant today because probably more than any other period in history today the world pulls you in different directions, and it’s never been harder to stick to your guns.”


 








10 All-Time Best Super Bowl Halftime Shows, From U2 to Michael Jackson (Videos)














10. Janet Jackson and Justin Timberlake (2004)

Ah, yes. Maybe this isn't the best, but it was definitely among the most memorable. Janet and Justin were doing a rendition of "Rock Your Body" that was absolutely smoking... until the smoke turned into a PTC wildfire. In hindsight, the wardrobe malfunction might have saved this show. Does anyone even remember that Nelly, Diddy, and Kid Rock also performed that night?














9. Paul McCartney (2005)

Sir Paul's show marked the beginning of the six-year classic rock era of halftime shows following the backlash from Janet Jackson's notorious wardrobe malfunction in 2004, and what a breath of fresh air it was. McCartney knew exactly what songs from his catalog would fill up a football stadium. Starting with "Drive My Car," pumping through with "Live And Let Die," and finishing with the crowd pleaser "Hey Jude," this show showed how sometimes the old ways are the best.














8. Katy Perry (2015)

This is a halftime show that we'll look back at as emblematic of its time. Katy's show was loud, weird, and specifically tailored to the Internet's tendency to latch onto weird things and meme the fajezzus out of them. But in terms of actual musical performances, the real star was Missy Elliott, who strutted out in a surprise appearance and blew the crowd away. She didn't steal the spotlight. She commandeered it.














7. Prince (2006)

Super Bowl XLI took place under a torrential Florida downpour, but that played right into Prince's hands. His performance of "Purple Rain" amid raindrops turned purple by stage lights was breathtaking, as was his take on Bob Dylan's "All Along The Watchtower."














6. Beyonce (2013)

Of course she's on this list. It's BEYONCE, for crying out loud. She has a stage presence that is unrivaled by any musician of her generation. But what really made her show unique wasn't just the surprise Destiny's Child reunion. It was also the fact that she actually paid respect to the event by starting her show with a soundbite from legendary football coach Vince Lombardi.














5. Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band (2009)

Wasn't Super Bowl XLIII amazing? Not only did it have one of the most dramatic championship games ever between the Steelers and Cardinals, but it also had a performance from The Boss that was the apex of the classic rock era. From his order to "put the chicken fingers DOOOOWN" to his knee-slide right into the camera, Springsteen was on a mission to get everyone out of their seats. Mission accomplished, sir.














4. Aerosmith and 'N Sync (2001)

Okay, okay. Some older readers might be annoyed that a show with "Bye Bye Bye" and Britney Spears got ranked above one with "Born to Run" and "Tenth Avenue Freeze Out," but back in 2001 this lineup was a big deal. After struggling through the '90s, the NFL gave control of the halftime show to MTV, who responded by gathering the biggest Top 40 heavyweights that could be found. The sight of Aerosmith performing "Walk This Way" with Spears, Nelly, Mary J. Blige and the biggest boy band of all time in 'N Sync was the kind of show the NFL had been dreaming of for years.














3. Coldplay, Beyonce and Bruno Mars (2016): Coldplay was the official act, but they turned their daytime Super Bowl 50show into a tribute to all the halftimes that came before. Bruno returned to the Super Bowl with "Uptown Funk" under his belt, while Beyonce began her domination of 2016 with a tribute to the Black Panthers. Coldplay, meanwhile, turned out a colorful rendition of "Viva La Vida" complete with a kid orchestra led by maestro Gustavo Dudamel and a colorful crowd card stunt that showed Up With People how its done.














2. Michael Jackson (1993)

The one that started it all. MJ's reign as the King of Pop was coming to an end at this time... and the beginning of his creeper reputation would arrive with the first wave of sexual abuse allegations later that year. But at this point, he still had enough star power to make the Super Bowl halftime show a must-watch event for the first time ever. The children's choir performance of "We Are the World" followed by Jackson's dramatic finale performance of "Heal the World" became a defining moment of his career, one that would be reenacted at his memorial service at the Staples Center 16 years later.














1. U2 (2002)

There will likely never be a halftime show bigger than this one. Mounted just four months after 9/11, U2's show was a perfect mix of poignant remembrance and breathtaking musicianship. In a beautiful tribute, U2 performed "Where the Streets Have No Name" in front of a scrolling list of those who perished in the terror attack. To this day, the show still draws tears.










Previous Slide


Next Slide







							1 of 10						




From MJ to that dumb shark, here are the stadium extravaganzas that couldn’t be missed




10. Janet Jackson and Justin Timberlake (2004)

Ah, yes. Maybe this isn't the best, but it was definitely among the most memorable. Janet and Justin were doing a rendition of "Rock Your Body" that was absolutely smoking... until the smoke turned into a PTC wildfire. In hindsight, the wardrobe malfunction might have saved this show. Does anyone even remember that Nelly, Diddy, and Kid Rock also performed that night?








View In Gallery










Show 
Comments














Related Content












 






Culture
 





				Make No Mistake: Donald Trump and Steve Bannon Are the Villains in This Movie (Commentary)			




By 
Phil Owen
 | February 1, 2017 @ 2:00 PM














 






TV
 





				Budweiser’s Super Bowl Spot Reminds Viewers Immigration Makes America Great (Video)			




By 
Joe Otterson
 | January 31, 2017 @ 8:11 AM














 






Culture
 





				Budweiser’s Name Change Is a Total Buzz-Kill on Twitter			




By 
Tim Kenneally
 | May 10, 2016 @ 11:18 AM






















 


 












 




 


 


 
 
 






 
 






 












Information
Masthead


Newsletter Subscription


About Us


OscarWrap 2017


OscarWrap 2016


OscarWrap 2015


EmmyWrap 2016


EmmyWrap 2015


CannesWrap 2016


CannesWrap 2015


Fall TV Preview


Press Releases


Contact


Advertise With Us


Jobs


 




Featured Blogs
Waxword


Steve Pond


Alonso Duralde


Media Alley


Party Report


Hollywood, D.C.


TheGrill Conference


Obits


Hello! Hollywood


 




Connect
Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


 






 
 






























