







































































































































Spinzon




Conservative News












HOME


News


Elections 2016


U.S.


World


Faith


 
















 


















BREAKING: Trump’s First Illegal Immigrant Raid Underway…






















spinzon




 
February 6, 2017


U.S.
















The first deportation operation is gearing up, so get ready to mark a Trump campaign promise complete.


The Trump administration is collaborating with Immigration & Customs Enforcement in Austin, Texas to begin the first round of undocumented immigrant deportations.


The Austin Chronicle reports:


“According to the Immigrant Services Network of Austin, which published a news bulletin on Wednesday about the rumored raid, ICE has reportedly deployed four teams of five to 10 officers in Travis County. The federal agency is allegedly lodging detainers for any foreign-born individual in a county jail, and are detaining and arresting people who have criminal warrants or outstanding orders of removal. (DACA, deferred action, pending U visas, and stays of removal aren’t being targeted at this point, though that could change.)”












In Austin and on social media, Democrats are in a full-blown panic.


One local city councilman, Greg Casar, is working to inform illegal immigrants of their ability to call a “deportation crisis hotline” if provoked by ICE.


Casar is also planning on distributing “Know Your Rights” pamphlets to undocumented immigrants.


This story will be updated in the coming days.


SHARE this story if you support these new deportation maneuvers.












Source












BREAKING: Trump’s First Illegal Immigrant Raid Underway…
Share this:
Tweet
Share on Tumblr
 



         Tagged on: 
Illegal immigrants
    
Trump
 






←
 Obama Sent Check To Rioters While Leaving Office, $400K To Fight New Administration


BLM Supporters Now Want To Assassinate Tom Brady 
→










Like us on Facebook
 




Like us on Facebook




Follow us on Twitter
Follow @TheSpinzon
 




 
 
Recent Posts
 




BREAKING: Maria Bartiromo Discovers Muslim Spy Ring Operating INSIDE US Government (VIDEO)






Jesse Lee Peterson: “President Trump Is God’s Model For What A Real Man Should Be”






CNN President Jeff Zucker: “Attacking Trump Is Boosting The Morale Of Our Employees”






Illegals Now In “Shock” As Deportations Happen, Claim They Are Innocent And Have No Idea Why






Students Fake Trump’s Assassination And It’s OK. Try This On Obama And It’s RACIST






 
















Copyright © 2017 
Spinzon
. Powered by 
WordPress
. Theme: Ample by 
ThemeGrill
.
 


































 






































