













 
 
Search Newsweek
Search form
 
Search 
 
 
Search form
 
Search 
 
U.S.
World
Business
Tech & Science
Culture
Sports
Opinion
 
 
Subscribe
 
To Newsweek
 
 
This Week
 
Edition
Sign In
Account
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subscribe
 
To Newsweek
 
Subscribe To Newsweek
 
$14.99
Print & Digital
3 Month Trial—Save 85% off cover
 
Try
$4.99
Digital Only
3 Month Trial—Save 45% off cover
 
Try
 
See All Subscription Options
 
Subscribe To The Newsletter
 
 
Please enter a valid email
 
 
 
 
 
This Week
 
Edition
 
This Week's Edition
 
February 24
The New Offensive on Alzheimer’s Disease
'POINTER' Tracks First Responders Where GPS Fails
The New Offensive on Alzheimer’s Disease
Manzanar, a History Lesson for Trump's Extreme Vetting
 
View All Features
Change Your Edition
US
Europe
Middle East
Espa&ntildeol;
日本
한국
Pakistan
Polska
Srbija
Česká Republika
Sign In
Account
Your Subscription
You have 
 days remaining on your subscription
 
Renew
 
Account Settings
 
Sign Out




 
 
 
U.S.
Betsy DeVos Narrowly Confirmed as Education Secretary
 By 
 
Alexander Nazaryan
 
 
 On 2/7/17 at 1:23 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Close
 
U.S.
 
Betsy DeVos
 
Donald Trump
Betsy DeVos, the Michigan school choice advocate, on Tuesday was confirmed as U.S. education secretary, but only after an extraordinary intervention from Vice President Mike Pence, who, as Senate president, cast the tie-breaking vote.
The vote—by far the most contentious in the cabinet of President Trump thus far—came after a night during which Senate Democrats held the floor, seeking to paint DeVos as an inexperienced ideologue who would undermine public education.
Related: Betsy DeVos is coming for your public schools
Democrats needed only one more Republican to cast a vote against DeVos, since two others—Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska—had already indicated they'd vote against her. Both are from rural states 
where school-choice policies she backs could prove ruinous
.
 
 Try Newsweek for only 
$1.25 per week
 
Liberals mounted a furious campaign of phone calls and protests seeking to persuade a centrist Republican—such as Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania or Rob Portman of Ohio—to vote against DeVos, a wealthy Republican donor who supported Jeb Bush and then Marco Rubio during the presidential campaign. On the Senate floor Tuesday morning, Minority Leader Chuck Schumer practically begged another Republican to flip his or her vote, noting that DeVos’s antipathy to public schooling was particularly consequential for other rural states beyond Maine and Alaska, where there are few private or charter school options. “I would dare say is not good for the states of a lot of senators on the other side of the aisle who feel compelled, out of party loyalty, to vote for her,” Schumer said. “So I hope against hope that another Republican will have the courage of the senators from Alaska and Maine and join us.”
Related Stories
 
Will DeVos Do for Schools What She Did for Flint Water?
 
Seven Things to Know About Education Pick Betsy DeVos
 
The Betsy DeVos Hearing: Guns, Charters and Grizzlies
However, a third Republican vote never materialized, and Pence cast the tie-breaking vote as expected. Never in the history of the American presidency had a Cabinet nominee been confirmed in this way.
Then again, DeVos is no ordinary nominee. She has no experience in public education; and her four children did not attend public school. Most of her work has been in philanthropy, focusing on school choice, which she has depicted as an absolute good. She appears to have little knowledge of the Common Core standards, student testing, teacher evaluation, or any of the manifold issues in higher education, including student debt or the crisis of sexual assault on college campuses.
Democrats 
were especially troubled by her support for guns in schools
, as well as her family's longstanding philanthropic support of conservative and Christian causes. In the end, however, they were unable to persuade a sufficient number of Republican peers to share in those concerns.
Request Reprint
 or 
Submit Correction
















Join the Discussion




 




Most Read
























 
















 
 
 
© 2017 Newsweek LLC
 
 
Please enter a valid email
About Us
Corrections
Contact Us
IBT Media
Careers
Advertise
Copyright
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Archive
Recent Issues
 
Subscribe
February 17 Issue
 
Is the Pen Mightier Than Trump? Ask the 'Paris Review'
 
This 'Swamp' Has No Drain!
 
The Blackbird Can Be Any Car it Wants to Be
 
February 10 Issue
 
California's Lost Viking Treasure Ship
 
The Queens of Trumplandia
 
Inside the War Between Trump and the Media
 
February 03 Issue
 
Putin, Russia and the Return of Cold War Liberals
 
Tooth, Heal Thyself
 
The Truth Behind the Last Battle of Vietnam
 
January 27 Issue
 
Genetic 'Signatures' Help Spot Deadly Cancers
 
Jonathan Pie Takes YouTube Act Live in Post-Truth Era
 
Commander-in-Tweet
Browse Archives
 






























