





Skip to main content






















DONATE


SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTER










Search form




Search 












 


















Wednesday, February 22, 2017








Home


World


War & Peace


Economy


Climate


Rights


Solutions


U.S.


Canada


















 
DeVos Voucher Plan Would Exacerbate Educational Inequality 


 




Published on 
Tuesday, February 07, 2017
 by 
The Hill
DeVos Voucher Plan Would Exacerbate Educational Inequality 


by
Jerusha Connor
 
0
 Comments
Betsy DeVos shakes Donald Trump's hand at a rally during the president-elect's "victory tour." (Photo: AP)
Students in schools with concentrated poverty know that their schools have less than schools situated in wealthier communities, but when they come face to face with exactly how much less, the experience can be painful.


A forthcoming book by Cynthia Taines, as well as a recent initiative between students in Philadelphia and Methacton, Pennsylvania, shows what happens when students from under-resourced schools visit well-resourced schools just a few miles away.


Touring the wealthier suburban school, the students from the under-resourced urban schools experienced feelings of betrayal as they realized just how unfairly they've been treated by our nation’s education system.


“I feel trashy,” one Philadelphia student said.


“I feel deprived,” said another.   


Although she imagines she might reverse these feelings of deprivation by pushing a school choice agenda, Betsy DeVos will, in fact, underscore the message the low-income students take away from these projects — the system is rigged against them.


Due to what she represents and what she promises, DeVos’s confirmation as secretary of education will further reinforce the inequities endemic to our nation’s schools.


By confirming DeVos, the Republicans in the Senate affirm that the wealthy in this country get to play by a different set of rules. DeVos came to her hearing woefully underprepared.


She demonstrated a profound lack of knowledge of the laws that govern public education, including the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, and little understanding of the different ways in which student achievement can be measured.


In a pointed exchange with Sen. 
Tim Kaine
 (D-Va.) in which he asked if she supported “equal accountability for all schools that received federal funding, yes or no?” she could only repeat, “I support accountability.” 


Were this exchange a multiple choice question on one of the standardized tests typically used for accountability purposes, she would have failed. Were she in a school where her classmates answered as she did, her school would be labeled a failing school and threatened with closure or takeover.


As it is, if she is confirmed, she will be rewarded for her glaring ineptitude and cavalier approach toward preparation. Unlike the students in the struggling schools she promises to hold accountable, she was apparently neither subject to incessant test prep sessions nor made to feel that much was at stake during her performance.


The stark difference between her low-stakes confirmation process, where she was shielded and showered with praise by the Republicans whose coffers she has filled, and the high-stakes testing experiences of neglected students whose schools have been starved of resources is not just ironic; it is unjust.


The takeaway is clear — money matters. You have it and you can get away with shoddy work, no matter the costs to others. If you don’t have it you will be blamed for your individual failings, held accountable.


It is this same type of blaming and shaming logic that underpins DeVos’s policy priorities as well — the use of school vouchers and the expansion of unregulated charter schools.


DeVos, like the man who chose her for the position of secretary of education, believes students should not be “trapped in failing schools.”  She promises to spring the trap by giving them tuition vouchers to attend a school of their choosing.


f they fail to choose well, the onus is on them. Nevermind that the vouchers will never be enough to cover the tuition costs of elite private schools, or that schools of the sort her children attended may not want low-income students with vouchers.


Never mind the time, social costs, or the mental toll of having to travel far from one’s home to attend “a better” school. Never mind that some children may actually want to stay in their own neighborhoods to attend school, if only their schools had the same level of resources the schools across town had.


Certainly never mind the research, which shows voucher programs do not work to improve student achievement. 


Voucher programs and charter school expansion drain both money and social capital from the traditional public schools, creating even more of an imbalanced, two-tiered system.


More insidiously, these policies let politicians and taxpayers, who do not want their tax dollars redirected to the “inner city", off the hook from having to invest money in upgrading neighborhood schools in low-income communities.


These schools can continue to crumble, to poison teachers and students, to find themselves unable to afford the textbooks that are aligned to the state tests, because if the kids remain in these schools, under a voucher system, it’s their own damned fault.


To counter the damage DeVos could do to our education system, we must refuse to accept the illusion of school choice and to allow the dismantling of public education in this country.


We need to rise up and demand from our politicians an educational system built on a foundation of sufficient, well-resourced, sustainable neighborhood public schools for all children.


In particular,  we must support those who have been left behind by the school of choice movement, those who have been pushed out of charter schools, and those who reject the notion that any system that sets up a marketplace of school winners and school losers is in the best interest of our democracy. 


DeVos may be confirmed soon, but she should not be given carte blanche. If she is confirmed, it will be time to hold her and those who voted to confirm her accountable.
© 2016 The Hill






Jerusha Connor






Jerusha Connor is a professor at Villanova University who specializes in K-12 public high schools and the pressures on students to perform academically. She's also an expert on class sizes and education budget cuts and how that impacts teachers, students and the outcomes of testing.
 


Share This Article






Related Articles










The Republican Bid to Kill the ACA Is a Trojan Horse














In National First, City Council Unanimously Passes Trump Impeachment Resolution














Do These 10 Things, And Trump Will Be Toast














"Forced Removal Isn't Just in History Books... It's Happening Tomorrow"












More in:
U.S.
, 
Education
, 
Inequality
, 
Privatization
, 
Betsy Devos
, 
Donald Trump
, 
Children






Top Comments






(Click to see more comments or to join the conversation)
















Today's Views










 
 


 
Kathy Kelly
 


 
Friendship in Defiance of War
 
 




 
 


 
Julie Chinitz
 


 
The Republican Bid to Kill the ACA Is a Trojan Horse
 
 




 
 


 
Bill Quigley
 


 
Ten Examples of Direct Resistance to Stop Government Raids
 
 




 
 


 
Michael Moore
 


 
Do These 10 Things, And Trump Will Be Toast
 
 




 
 


 
Les Leopold
 


 
The Constitutional Apocalypse
 
 




 
 


 
Ira Chernus
 


 
Why We Protest: A Message for Middle America
 
 




 
 


 
Tom Gallagher
 


 
The Stakes in the Race for Democratic National Committee Chair
 
 




 
 


 
Amanda Baran
 


 
Donald Trump’s War on Immigrant Women
 
 




 
 


 
Nnimmo Bassey
 


 
System Change Will Not Be Negotiated
 
 




 
 


 
Ben Manski
 


 
DHS Immigration Memo Underscores Urgent Need for National Guard Reform
 
 




 
 


 
John Boik
 


 
An Economy of Meaning – or Bust
 
 




 
 


 
Ralph Nader
 


 
Restricting People’s Use of Their Courts
 
 







    More Views  




 
















News That Matters




















 




Sorry, Mr. President, There's Nothing "So-Called" About These Angry Crowds
 








 




RESIST Day #34: What You Can Do Today
 








 




In National First, City Council Unanimously Passes Trump Impeachment Resolution
 








 




Reclaiming Statue of Liberty's Message, Activists Drop 'Refugees Welcome' Banner
 










 












 




Judge Stops Texas From Cutting Medicaid Funds for Planned Parenthood
 








 




"Forced Removal Isn't Just in History Books... It's Happening Tomorrow"
 








 




"Love That Doesn't Risk Isn't Love": Amid Immigration Chaos, Sanctuaries Flourish
 








 




Without One Mention of Climate Change, Scott Pruitt Greets EPA Employees
 








 




'Medicare for All' Only Way for Trump to Keep Healthcare Promises
 








 




Iowa Bill Would Force Universities to Hire Right-Wing Professors
 













    More News  




 






Further










 
Yearning/ Dying To Breathe Free
 


 
 


 
A group of self-described "everyday people" hung a massive banner across the foot of Lady Liberty Tuesday declaring "Refugees Welcome" - an act and sentiment, immeasurably ironically, radical enough in these dystopian times that park officials are now seeking the "suspects." The day before, meanwhile, the bodies of at least 74 refugees trying to reach Europe washed up on the Libyan shore; each, critics say, is "a testament to our indifference."
 


 
Read More...
 
 







    More Further  




 
















Sign Up for Newsletter












 










 
















Connect With Us 
























About Common Dreams


Our Mission:
To inform. To inspire.
To ignite change for the common good.
Common Dreams has been providing breaking news & views for the progressive community since 1997. We are independent, non-profit, advertising-free and 100% reader supported.


About Common Dreams
Key Staff
Writers' Guidelines
The Commons - Community Guidelines
Privacy Policy
Jobs
 








Contact Us


Common Dreams
P.O. Box 443
Portland, ME 04112-0443
USA


via Email:


Editor
News Tips?
Article Submissions
News Release Submissions
Webmaster / General Info


207.775.0488 (voice)
 207.775.0489 (fax)
 








Common Dreams brings you the news that matters.


DONATE
 




Sign up for Newsletter


Click to Sign Up
 




Connect With Us


















 
 












