 
























NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.


LEARN MORE »




















Sections




Home




Search


Skip to content


Skip to navigation


View mobile version










The New York Times












Politics
|
Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary; Pence Breaks Tie
















Search




Subscribe Now


Log In






0


Settings










Close search




Site Search Navigation








Search NYTimes.com








Clear this text input








Go














https://nyti.ms/2kJBnKn










Loading...










See next articles












See previous articles




















Site Navigation






Site Mobile Navigation












Advertisement


















Supported by








Politics
 


Betsy DeVos Confirmed as Education Secretary; Pence Breaks Tie




By 
EMMARIE HUETTEMAN
 and 
YAMICHE ALCINDOR
FEB. 7, 2017








Continue reading the main story


Share This Page




Continue reading the main story


























Video




The 51-50 Vote to Confirm DeVos






Betsy DeVos had one of the most contentious confirmations in history. Calls inundated the Capitol, disrupting the Senate’s voice mail system. But, in a historic tiebreaking vote, Ms. DeVos became the next education secretary.



                    By NEETI UPADHYE on                                                                
Publish Date 
February 7, 2017.
                                    



                    Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times.
                


Watch in Times Video »
















embed






















WASHINGTON — 
Betsy DeVos
, a wealthy Republican donor with almost no experience in public education, was confirmed by the Senate as the nation’s education secretary on Tuesday, but only with the help of a historic tiebreaking vote from Vice President Mike Pence after weeks of protests and two defections within her own party.
The 51-to-50 vote capped an all-night vigil on the Senate floor, where, one by one, Democrats denounced Ms. DeVos to a mostly empty chamber. But they did not get a third Republican defection that would have stopped Ms. DeVos — a billionaire who has devoted much of her life to promoting 
charter schools
 and vouchers — from becoming the steward of the nation’s nearly 100,000 public schools.
It was the first time a vice president has been summoned to the Capitol to break a tie on a cabinet nomination.
Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, demanded before the vote that Republicans explain how they could support Ms. DeVos. “If we cannot set aside party loyalty long enough to perform the essential duty of vetting the president’s nominees, what are we even doing here?” Mr. Franken asked.
 
Continue reading the main story
















Advertisement




Continue reading the main story












The two Republicans who voted against the nominee, Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, said Ms. DeVos was unqualified because of a lack of familiarity with public schools and with laws meant to protect students.




Advertisement




Continue reading the main story




“I have serious concerns about a nominee to be secretary of education who has been so involved in one side of the equation, so immersed in the push for vouchers, that she may be unaware of what actually is successful within the public schools, and also what is broken and how to fix them,” Ms. Murkowski said last week 
when the two announced their opposition
.
Ms. Murkowski also said she had been influenced by thousands of messages she had received urging her to reject the nomination.














How the Senate Voted on Betsy DeVos »














51 votes will ensure confirmation










Yes




51






























































































































































































































































































































No




50






































































































































































































































































































































For many educators, Ms. DeVos’s support for charter schools and vouchers — which allow students to use taxpayer dollars to pay tuition at private, religious and 
for-profit schools
 — reflected a deep disconnect from public schools. Neither Ms. DeVos nor any of her children attended a public school.
Most Republicans described Ms. DeVos as committed to what is best for children. In a fiery speech moments before the vote, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and a former education secretary himself, criticized his Democratic colleagues for opposing Ms. DeVos, he said, simply because she was nominated by a Republican president.
“She led the most effective public school reform movement over the last few years,” he said. Mr. Alexander, the chairman of the committee that approved Ms. DeVos’s nomination last week in a party-line split, said she had been “at the forefront” of education overhaul for decades.
By midday Tuesday, as the vote in the Senate deadlocked at 50 to 50, Mr. Pence, a former member of the House, took the gavel and at 12:29 p.m. declared his vote for Ms. DeVos. In a procedural quirk, a confirmation vote on Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama for attorney general was scheduled after that of Ms. DeVos so he could vote “yes” before leaving the Senate, securing Republicans a decisive vote.
Raised in a wealthy family, Ms. DeVos, who married into the Amway fortune, has a web of financial investments, has also raised alarm among critics who worried about the many opportunities for conflicts of interest. She was the first of Mr. Trump’s nominees not to complete an ethics review before appearing before a Senate panel. She filed her ethics paperwork on Jan. 19, two days after her confirmation hearing.
Teachers’ unions and even some charter organizations had protested Ms. DeVos’s nomination across the country. Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the top Democrat on the committee that approved Ms. DeVos — and a former educator herself — urged disheartened advocates on Tuesday morning before the vote not to think of their efforts as a waste.




Advertisement




Continue reading the main story




“It’s made an impact here and made a difference,” she said. “And I think it’s woken each of us up in this country to what we value and what we want.”
Shortly after Ms. DeVos’s confirmation, Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, a union that protested the nomination, said the public would now have to “serve as a check and balance” to her policies and be “fierce fighters on behalf of children.”


Photo














Two Republicans senators, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, left, and Susan Collins of Maine, center, voted against Ms. DeVos.




Credit

            Gabriella Demczuk for The New York Times        






“It’s telling that even when Trump had full control of the legislative and executive branches, he could only get DeVos confirmed by an unprecedented tiebreaking vote by his vice president,” Ms. Weingarten said. “That’s because DeVos shows an antipathy for public schools, a full-throttled embrace of private, for-profit alternatives and a lack of basic understanding of what children need to succeed in school.”
David E. Kirkland, an education professor at New York University who has studied Ms. DeVos’s impact in Michigan, said he feared she could badly hurt public education and pull resources out of schools in need of federal funding. “Her extensive conflicts of interest and record of diverting money away from vulnerable students and into the pockets of the rich make DeVos completely unfit for the position she was just confirmed to,” he said.
Ms. DeVos has focused on expanding parental choice in education and on embracing charter schools and vouchers. Her ideology was a good fit for Mr. Trump’s education platform during the campaign, which called for a $20 billion voucher initiative aimed at low-income children.
But freeing such an enormous sum would most likely require the reallocation of federal education money, as well as a realignment of congressional priorities. Vouchers were not part of a 
sweeping education overhaul passed in 2015
, and lawmakers from rural areas, where schools tend to be farther apart, are particularly wary of such initiatives.
The Trump administration could potentially advance a more limited voucher program and seek tax credits for private school tuition or 
home schooling
 costs.
Ms. DeVos has also indicated that she would dismantle other pieces of the Obama administration’s legacy, potentially including a rule that denies federal student aid money to for-profit colleges whose graduates struggle to get jobs, as well as an aggressive effort to investigate and adjudicate campus sexual assault claims.




Advertisement




Continue reading the main story




Ms. DeVos’s critics said they would continue to fight her as she serves. Some vowed to demonstrate at her appearances at forums and schools and to seek candidates friendly to their view to run for local office.
Lily Eskelsen García, the president of the National Education Association, said her union would tap into the vast database of advocates it had built during Ms. DeVos’s confirmation process to help keep her in check. “As soon as she does something alarming, it will be known, it will be seen,” she said. “She won’t be able to hide.”


Get the Morning Briefing by Email
 
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
 






Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.


Invalid email address. Please re-enter.


You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.








Sign Up
















Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.












Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.


View all New York Times newsletters.






See Sample


Manage Email Preferences


Not you?


Privacy Policy








Mr. Trump’s choice of Ms. DeVos, known for her big-spending lobbying efforts to expand charter schools in Michigan — an experiment that even charter school supporters now criticize — to lead the 
Education Department
 presented senators with a multitude of potential pitfalls. Her background as a 
prolific 
 fund-raiser who has donated
 about $200 million over the years to Republican causes and candidates — including some senators, as has been the case for previous presidential nominees — came under scrutiny.
Democrats have also expressed concern about her family’s contributions to groups that support so-called conversion therapy for gay people and her past statements that government “sucks” and that public schools are a “dead end.” Opponents have also focused on the poor performance of charter schools in Detroit, which she championed.
Senators and education advocates from both sides of the aisle also expressed concern after Ms. DeVos, during 
her Jan. 17 confirmation hearing
, confused core responsibilities of the department.
In one notable exchange that spread across the internet, Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, asked Ms. DeVos whether all schools that receive public money should have to follow the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, the landmark 1975 civil rights legislation. Under that federal law, states and school districts are required to provide special education services to children with disabilities.
Ms. DeVos said the issue was “best left to the states.”
In a bizarre moment that made her the butt of late-night TV jokes, Ms. DeVos also suggested that states should decide whether to allow guns in schools, citing in part concerns about protection from grizzly bears in Wyoming.
“I think probably there, I would imagine there is probably a gun in a school to protect from potential grizzlies,” she said.




Before the vote Tuesday, Mr. Franken said, “It was the most embarrassing confirmation hearing that I have ever seen.”




Advertisement




Continue reading the main story




In a final push that included demonstrations around the country, constituents and advocates swamped Senate offices with calls, so inundating the Capitol switchboard that it disrupted the Senate’s voice mail system.




 Correction: February 9, 2017 
 


An article on Wednesday about the Senate confirmation of Betsy DeVos as secretary of education described incorrectly the role of public pressure in the “no” votes cast by two Republicans. While Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska said she had been influenced by thousands of messages she received urging her to reject the nomination, Senator Susan Collins of Maine did not in fact refer to such public comments as influencing her decision to oppose the nomination.
 








Dana Goldstein contributed reporting from New York.


Get politics and Washington news updates via 
Facebook
, 
Twitter
 and in 
the Morning Briefing newsletter
.


A version of this article appears in print on February 8, 2017, on Page A1 of the 
New York edition
 with the headline: DeVos Confirmed for Education by Pence’s Vote. 
 
Order Reprints
|
 
Today's Paper
|
Subscribe










Continue reading the main story














We’re interested in your feedback on this page. 
Tell us what you think.




















The Trump White House


Stories about President Trump’s administration.



















                                The Pruitt Emails: E.P.A. Chief Was Arm in Arm With Industry            


FEB 22

















                                Fight Erupts in Trump Administration Over Transgender Students’ Rights            


FEB 22

















                                Hispanic Leaders Plan Fight Against Trump’s Agenda            


FEB 22

















                                Trump Appears Set to Reverse Protections for Transgender Students            


FEB 21

















                                Supreme Court Rejects Alabama Death Row Inmate’s Appeal            


FEB 21














See More »


















Related Coverage






















Betsy DeVos’s Rocky Path as Trump’s Pick for Education Secretary


FEB. 7, 2017




























Mike Pence’s Vote on a Cabinet Nominee Would Be Historic


FEB. 7, 2017


























FIRST 100 DAYS BRIEFING 




DeVos Is Confirmed as Education Secretary; Melania Trump Settles Libel Suit Against Blogger


FEB. 7, 2017










































































Related Coverage
















Betsy DeVos’s Rocky Path as Trump’s Pick for Education Secretary


FEB. 7, 2017




























Mike Pence’s Vote on a Cabinet Nominee Would Be Historic


FEB. 7, 2017


























FIRST 100 DAYS BRIEFING 




DeVos Is Confirmed as Education Secretary; Melania Trump Settles Libel Suit Against Blogger


FEB. 7, 2017
































What's Next






Loading...




















Go to Home Page »




Site Index




The New York Times












Site Index Navigation






News






World






U.S.






Politics






N.Y.






Business






Tech






Science






Health






Sports






Education






Obituaries






Today's Paper






Corrections










Opinion






Today's Opinion






Op-Ed Columnists






Editorials






Contributing Writers






Op-Ed Contributors






Opinionator






Letters






Sunday Review






Taking Note






Room for Debate






Public Editor






Video: Opinion










Arts






Today's Arts






Art & Design






Books






Dance






Movies






Music






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Television






Theater






Video: Arts










Living






Automobiles






Crossword






Food






Education






Fashion & Style






Health






Jobs






Magazine






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Real Estate






T Magazine






Travel






Weddings & Celebrations










Listings & More






Classifieds






Tools & Services






Times Topics






Public Editor






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Blogs






Multimedia






Photography






Video






NYT Store






Times Journeys






Subscribe






Manage My Account










Subscribe




Subscribe






Home Delivery








Digital Subscriptions








Times Insider








Crossword










Email Newsletters






Alerts






Gift Subscriptions






Corporate Subscriptions






Education Rate










Mobile Applications






Replica Edition


















Site Information Navigation







                    © 
2017
 The New York Times Company






Home


Search


Accessibility concerns? Email us at 
accessibility@nytimes.com
. We would love to hear from you.


Contact Us


Work With Us


Advertise


Your Ad Choices


Privacy


Terms of Service


Terms of Sale








Site Information Navigation




Site Map


Help


Site Feedback


Subscriptions






































