







































Skip









        Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
        
































































Menu






































































Ads






Interactive






Movies






Music






TV




























Subscribe























































        Collections
        










The Most Innovative Companies


The top 50 companies in entertainment, media, sports, technology, and more.










Most Creative People


Meet this year's inspiring leaders.










Innovation By Design


A showcase for ingenious design solutions.










World Changing Ideas


New workplaces, new food sources, new medicine—even an entirely new economic system.










Out of Office With


Industry leaders offer a glimpse of their lives outside of the office--and how these experiences have
                    helped to get them where they are today.










Creative Conversations


Creative dialogue can reinvent your business, your brand, and your career. Join Fast Company on a
                    multi-platform exploration of the art of conversation.










Mind and Machine


Computers are getting smart--very smart. Fast Company explains the complex and increasingly
                    influential world of artificial intelligence and machine learning.










Master Class


How the top talent from creative fields get work done.










Startup Report


The up-and-coming companies that are disrupting industries.










Innovation Agents


Profiles of the high-level business leaders behind progressive, creative, and innovative organizations










Tech Forecast


A roundup of breaking tech news, products, and services featuring the most important takeaways.











            Current Issue
            










Subscribe






Follow Fast Company


We’ll come to you.










































1 minute read




Image of the Day




"I Felt Like I Was Drawing A Tumor": "Legion" Artist On Sketching Steve Bannon




The comic artist has been channeling his frustration in ongoing political rants.












 
 
 


[Illustration: Bill Sienkiewicz]



































                                        More from 
Image of the Day











                                                The Preproduction Group Photo Is The New Teaser Trailer
                                            













                                                This Amazing Kellyanne Cosplay Has Other Protesters Shook
                                            













                                                A California City Councilman Brought Captain America's Shield To His Swearing In
                                            












































































Susan Karlin




02.07.17


9:41 AM






Bill Sienkiewicz
 is used to getting reactions to the spontaneous portraits of headline makers he posts on social media. But yesterday’s one of Trump chief strategist Steve Bannon tapped a collective agony.


"I think I hit a nerve with this one. It’s already gotten thousands of comments and shares," he says.


"Monday Morning Cirrhosis. I felt like I was drawing a tumor," read his accompanying 
Twitter post
. His Facebook page 
announced Bannon’s mug
 with, "Drunken Wormtongue in Chief. After drawing Trump numerous times, I gotta say doing Bannon felt like I was drawing with a cirrhotic swollen pen. He&apos;s just ugly on every level."




Between assignments, Sienkiewicz blows out the creative cobwebs with spontaneous late-night sketches honoring casts of favorite shows, like 
Breaking Bad
 and 
Deadwood
, and notable people who passed away.


But the psychosis of the election and new administration has Sienkiewicz turning more frequently to political commentary. Often, his fans respond by reposting his past comic artwork that lends itself to the current climate.


"Now it’s about getting rid of my anger and frustration rather than carrying it around all day," he says. "Trump lends himself to ridicule, but Bannon was less about drawing his likeness than my revulsion of him. I felt like I was channeling how ugly he is. It was already there, and I just had to scrape it off the guts of the universe."








Never miss a story.


Sign up for the Co.Create newsletter and get the best stories delivered to your inbox daily.






Send








I'd also like to receive special Fast Company offers






















































































































Advertise


Privacy Policy


Terms


About Us








Fast Company & Inc © 2017 Mansueto Ventures, LLC 










































