Breaking News
CNN
Toggle Search
Search
45
Congress
Security
The Nine
Trumpmerica
CNN.com
GOP senator: DeVos will have to be 'exposed' to public schools to see how successful they are
By Andrew Kaczynski, CNN 
Updated 1:34 PM ET, Tue February 7, 2017 
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights
Sen. Fischer said DeVos will need to be exposed to public schools to see how successful they are in educating children.
Fischer made the comments on Monday evening speaking with 1400 KLIN local radio in Nebraska.
 (CNN)
Republican Sen. Deb Fischer, who voted to confirm to Betsy DeVos as the secretary of education Tuesday, said DeVos will need to be exposed to public schools to see how successful they are in educating children.
Fischer made the comments on Monday evening speaking with 1400 KLIN local radio in Nebraska in response to a question about DeVos having sent her children to private schools. Fischer said she supported DeVos but disagreed with her on charter schools, something the Republican senator noted was a break from her party.
"Well, what I think what we need to do is make sure that we get the secretary of education out to the states and out to these great public schools that we have," the Nebraska Republican said. "That's how we can show how successful we are in educating our youth."
Fischer compared the situation to Sonny Perdue, the Trump administration's nominee to head the Agriculture department, saying people in the Midwest were concerned about is nomination because they had different concerns from the South, where Perdue is from.
"I will hold Mrs. Devos to those same standards so she understands and is exposed as I said, the great public schools that we have in Nebraska and that we have in many other states." 
Content by LendingTree
Rates now at 3.2% APR (15 Yr Fixed). Do you qualify?
 
Fastest way to pay off $10,000 in credit card debt
 
Can you save on your mortgage?
 
The amazing VA benefits not enough vets are claiming
 
Reverse Mortgages: Worth the risk?
 
Paid Partner Content
10 cards charging 0% interest until 2018
 NextAdvisor
 
Getting ready to sell? Find out what your home is worth now
 Trulia
 
Transferring credit card balances to a 21-month 0% APR is ingenious
 NextAdvisor
 
The next generation of Big Bang timepieces from Hublot is here
 Wallpaper
 
Best balance transfer cards for 2017
 NextAdvisor
 
Sections
45
Congress
Security
The Nine
Trumpmerica
Follow us
CNN.com
© 2017 Cable News Network. 
Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.
 All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. 
Terms of service
 | 
Privacy guidelines
