


















































































































				Apsny News - 
 


















 








İSTANBUL


Çok Bulutlu, 11°C


Diğer Şehirler →
 


























&dollar; DOLAR →

			Alış: 
3,61
 / Satış: 
3,62






€ EURO →

			Alış: 
3,79
 / Satış: 
3,81


























Breaking News
















GOP representative says a nuclear bomb could cross the border in a 'bale of marijuana.' Don't laugh too hard.






GOP representative says a nuclear bomb could cross the border in a 'bale of marijuana.' Don't laugh too hard.






NASA on new findings ‘from beyond our solar system’ (WATCH LIVE)






US-led coalition devastates Raqqa with heavy airstrikes






30,000 China Police Officers Rally in Hong Kong to Support Jailed Colleagues






Puppy takes heroin overdose while owners 'scam' Home Depot






'Words fall short of deeds’: Dan Rather slams Trump's remarks on anti-Semitism






Syrian official: We will back Hezbollah in any future war with Israel






Reince Priebus is having a very good week






The Fix's White House power rankings




























Pence casts deciding vote to confirm DeVos as education secretary








 




07.02.2017


0



							45 kez okundu
						


























 






 Vice President Pence cast the deciding vote to confirm Betsy DeVos as education secretary Tuesday after opponents failed amid a groundswell of opposition to produce the additional “no” vote required to sink her nomination. 


DeVos was confirmed by a vote of 51-50 just at 12:30 p.m., with Pence breaking a 50-50 tie — the first time a vice president has cast a Senate vote since Richard B. Cheney helped break a tie on a procedural matter in 2008. 


DeVos “understands that teachers, students, parents, school boards, and state and local governments — not Washington bureaucrats — are best suited to make education decisions for our kids,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said Tuesday. “I know she’s committed to improving our education system so that every child has a brighter future.” 


As expected, Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) joined the Democratic caucus to oppose DeVos’s confirmation. 


Tuesday’s vote is expected to usher in a period of intense and unified Democratic opposition to Trump’s Cabinet nominees, including those chosen to lead the departments of Justice, Health and Human Services, Labor and Treasury — a historic rebuke of a first-term president’s Cabinet selections. 


Nodding to thousands of constituents’ fury over Trump’s nominees, Democrats held a 24-hour protest against DeVos on the Senate floor prior to Tuesday’s vote, charging throughout the night and early hours that the Republican billionaire power broker and charter school advocate lacked the experience to lead the U.S. public school system. 


“Betsy DeVos is the negative trifecta,” Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a floor speech. “Negative on competence — she doesn’t even understand the basic aspects of education. Negative on philosophy — she disdains public education where 90 percent of our kids are. And negative on ethics — her conflicts of interest are legion and she hasn’t, like some other cabinet nominees, tried to erase them.” 


Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), Trump’s attorney general nominee, is scheduled to receive a cloture vote Tuesday afternoon, setting him up for confirmation by the end of the week. 


This vote, along with others on Trump’s Cabinet nominees, is expected to see little to support from Democrats. Only Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) has announced plans to support Sessions. As of Monday, no Democrat had announced support for Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.), nominated to lead the Department of Health and Human Services, or Steven T. Mnuchin, nominated as treasury secretary. They all are scheduled for up-or-down votes in the coming days.


Opposition to Labor nominee Andrew Puzder; Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-S.C.), tapped to lead the Office of Management and Budget; and Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to lead the Environmental Protection Agency remains firm, but the final whip count is less certain, aides said Monday. Votes on those nominees are not scheduled for a few more weeks. Puzder has not yet been scheduled for a confirmation hearing.


Democrats announced in January that they would target eight Trump Cabinet nominees on the basis of their policy positions or lack of government experience. Only one of the eight, Rex Tillerson, has been confirmed so far — but he was the first secretary of state nominee in U.S. history to ever have to clear various procedural hurdles before a final vote.


Still, the level of opposition to DeVos was notable given that 25 Democrats are facing reelection next year, including 10 from states that Trump won. Those 10 have been facing pressure from Republicans to work with Trump or to be supportive of his policies and nominees.


But even the most imperiled Democrats stood firm, including Sen. Joe Donnelly of Indiana, who said he would vote against DeVos, Sessions and Price. He continues to review Mnuchin’s record before a final vote, a spokeswoman said.


Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) said last month that he planned to vote against DeVos in part because she “prioritizes private schools over public ones. That would put our students, Montana’s rural communities and our very democracy at risk.”


DeVos has spent decades using her family wealth and its political clout to advocate giving parents taxpayer-funded avenues to allow choice beyond troubled public schools.


Many Republican elected officials, who have received campaign donations from DeVos or her family members, embrace her views and consider her an ideal “outsider” to change the nation’s education system.


But progressive groups and labor unions — who also donate generously to Democratic senators — have unleashed members on senators in both parties for weeks, flooding Capitol Hill phone systems with messages opposing DeVos.


Republicans on Monday blasted Democrats for continuing to delay votes on Trump’s nominees, especially for forcing senators to run out the clock on procedural votes to prolong the inevitable. 


The continued delays are causing the slowest formation of a new president’s Cabinet since at least the 1950s, Republican said. As of Monday, just four of Trump’s Cabinet secretaries have been confirmed, compared with 12 of former president Barack Obama’s Cabinet secretaries at this point in 2009 and 16 of George W. Bush’s picks in 2001.


 
Read more at PowerPost
 




Source link 


 






 


İLGİLİ HABERLER












 








What Now for Merkel After Berlin?
















 








San Francisco police cut ties with controversial FBI terrorism task force
















 








Asia and Australia Edition: Donald Trump, Somalia, Kim Jong-un: Your Morning Briefing
















 








German Agriculture Minister Discusses Trade Restrictions With Russian Side
















 








Meet Russia's favorite congressman. He drunkenly arm-wrestled Putin to decide the Cold War.
















 








Geneva talks on Syria postponed, Russia says








 








ZİYARETÇİ YORUMLARI


Henüz yorum yapılmamış. İlk yorumu aşağıdaki form aracılığıyla siz yapabilirsiniz.






YORUM YAZ








Caucasia
















Foreign observers report no violations at NKR’s referendum




21 February 2017, 20:25 The members of 15 foreign delegations, who monitored the constitutional referendum, have handed their conclusions about the absence of violations over to the Central Election Commission...




















Art Association "Portal" in Vladikavkaz states threat of closure




21 February 2017, 02:56 The Creative Association “Portal”, established in place of the frozen construction...




















Abkhazia completes accepting documents for participating in parliamentary elections




21 February 2017, 09:23 The Central Election Commission (CEC) of Abkhazia has completed the reception...






ECtHR accepts Kobaliya’s complaints to consideration




ECtHR accepts Kobaliya’s complaints to consideration




Ruslan Tagibekov detained in Moscow Region subjected to torture, his defence asserts




Journalist Arshad Ibragimov appeals to Azerbaijani President for pardon




In Sochi, court marshals try to move large family out of municipal apartment




Arts
















Review: ‘My Brother, My Brother and Me’ Has Advice From Three Modern Stooges




Photo From left, the brothers Justin, Travis and Griffin McElroy on the television version of their podcast, “My Brother, My Brother and Me.” Credit Seeso The web series is now...




















Maria Callas, From Reality to Runway




They focused on the star’s lesser-seen personal attire — think items bought at French department...




















By Design: Decorating With Hundreds of Butterflies




Photo The interior designer Fran Hickman stands in the restaurant of the newly opened Chess...






Taylor Mac Wins Kennedy Prize for Drama Inspired by American History




What to Watch For at the Brit Awards




Further Reading: A History of Race and Racism in America, in 24 Chapters




Best of Late Night: Joe Scarborough Breaks Down Trump for Stephen Colbert




What’s on TV Wednesday: ‘The Tunnel’ and American Black Film Festival Honors
















 


















