 






































































Toggle navigation
























celebrity


fashion


tv


movies


music



















































    
      Award Season
    
    







    
      Reality TV
    
    







    
      Late Night
    
    







    
      Celebrity Kids
    
    







    
      Then & Now
    
    







    
      Photos
    
    






 






























Movies


Seth Meyers' Hilariously Spoofs Academy Award Movies in 'Oscar Bait' (Video)






























Fashion


All the Best and Worst Oscar Fashion of All Time (Photos)






























Award Shows


Adele Snaps Grammy In Half That She Wanted Beyonce to Win






























Music


Laverne Cox Is 'So Sorry' for Forgetting to Introduce Metallica With Lady Gaga at Grammys (Video)






























Award Shows


Adele Brings Beyonce to Tears With Praise During Grammy Acceptance Speech (Video)
















 


 


 


 


 


 


























































TV




February 7, 2017 6:40 AM




Stephen Colbert, Seth Meyers Mock Donald Trump's Media Criticism, 'Bowling Green Massacre' (Video)






























Late night was still in mourning Monday night over the 
Bowling Green Massacre
.


Both 
Stephen Colbert
 and 
Seth Meyers
 brought up the national tragedy "that did not occur" on their shows, digging into 
President Donald Trump
 over criticizing the media for not covering terrorist attacks. 


"The president is accusing the media of refusing to cover terrorist attacks. Why? Reasons," joked Colbert. "You know the old news adage, if it bleeds, don't talk about it."


"In one case, the president is right. In one case there was a terror case the press did not talk about. It's something called the Bowling Green Massacre," he continued, getting huge laughs from the audience. "I was not going to talk about this story, because it happened last Thursday, and the crazy train had gone way down the track since then, and I figured this tired hobo just missed his chance to jump in the box car. But today the president just gave me a reason to talk about it."


"I think we all remember where we weren’t when we didn’t hear that nothing had happened," he continued of Kellyanne Conway's now-infamous remarks. 


"They need to present both sides of the story, the things that did happen and the things that didn't happen. Then let the victims of the bowling green massacre decide if they were killed. So far, not one of them has come forward," added Colbert. "I don't want to jump to any conclusions. Just because it didn’t happen doesn't mean it wasn't an inside job. Think about it! If America isn't going to be attacked, who's most likely 
not
 to do it? Us! That's why I'm a bowling green truther. I demand that the media not release the reports they did not do on the attacks that did not occur. And I will not rest until they don't!"


Colbert's kicker: "We will have more on this story as it doesn't develop."


Later in the show, the host also slammed Trump's accusation that 3-5 million people illegally voted in the election. "That kind of accusation is called, and I don't want to get too technical here, bulls---," he 
blasted
. "The largest investigation of voter impersonation ever found ust 31 incidents out of a billion ballots cast. By the way, 31 out a billion is also my current Yelp review for the Trump administration."




Over on "Late Night with Seth Meyers," the Bowling Green Massacre was also a subject of concention.


"Now, if you were embarrassed you didn't remember the Bowling Green Massacre, don't be. It's an incident that never happened," he joked. "Like the Titanic crashing into the Hindenburg, or when Lee Harvey Oswald was shot by a unicorn." 


"This clip is a perfect example f the ways in which the bigger, more fantastical lies of the Trump administration overwhelm the smaller, more insidious lies," he continued. "Even when they're lying, they're distracting us from other, worse lies. That's like telling people you have a girlfriend in Canada when actually, you have a dead body in the basement." 


Elsewhere in the show, Meyers spoofed 
Sean Spicer's
 press briefings, with the host sitting front and center grilling the press secretary with hard-hitting questions like, "How's the president's penis?"


Watch the segment below:












#SethMeyers
#StephenColbert
#KellyanneConway





























                Related
            
















P!nk Praises Lady Gaga's Super Bowl Show By Ripping Into Donald Trump




















Lena Dunham Has Donald Trump to Thank for Her Recent Weight Loss




















'The View's' Jedediah Bila Condemns Donald Trump's 'Killer' Remarks as 'Disgusting'…




















The Donald Trump Super Bowl Spoof That You Didn't Get to See (Video)




















'SNL': Melissa McCarthy Steals Show as Sean Spicer, Kristen Stewart Drops the F-Bomb and…




















Ivanka Trump's Brand Denies Nordstrom Totally Dropped Her Line (Update)
































Please enable JavaScript to view the 
comments powered by Disqus.


blog comments powered by 
Disqus










More In Tv


















4 Tearjerkers From 'This Is Us' Saddest Episode Ever




















Whoopi Goldberg and Jedediah Bila Battle Over Obamacare on 'The View' (Video)




















Why 'Morning Joe' Scarborough Thinks Trump's 'Unsustainable' Presidency Won't Last 4…




















James Corden Lays Into Lifetime's Britney Spears Biopic for 6 Minutes Straight (Video)




















Seth Meyers' Hilariously Spoofs Academy Award Movies in 'Oscar Bait' (Video)




















Eden Sassoon Blasts Kyle Richards' 'Obsession' Remarks on 'RHOBH' (Exclusive)














Load More



































    TooFab Newsletter





Sign up to receive the latest TooFab news!










First Name*
 










Last Name*
 










Email*
 










Zip/Postal Code
 










By clicking submit I agree to the 
Privacy Policy
 and 
Terms of Use






Submit
 
 
 
 
















Around the Web




























































































Also On TooFab


















7 Things We Learned at Ice Cube's 'Fist Fight' Premiere




















Here's What Is Really Going on Between Wiz Khalifa and Amber Rose




















See All the Best and Worst Fashion From Grammy Awards 2017 (Photos)




















'The Walking Dead': Who the F--k Was That And 4 Other Burning Questions From Mid-Season…













































        Nathan Griffith's Nude Selfie Is Awfully Suspicious
      



        Amber Tamblyn Is All About Girl Power as She Announces Daughter's Birth
      



        'Don't Forget Dads' Instagram Reminds Us Dads Aren't Babysitters
      





























        This Little Girl Can't Stop Arguing With Her Dad About Counting: Watch
      



        Harrison Ford Comes Dangerously Close to Colliding With American Airlines Plane in New Video
      



        Bindi Irwin Honors Late Dad Steve Irwin on His 55th Birthday
      





























        What’s It REALLY Like To Work For Kylie Jenner? Her Assistant Spills!
      



        Love or Loathe: Lady Gaga’s New Tattoo
      



        WTF Alert: Kris Jenner’s INSANE Christmas Decorations
      





























        Keira Knightley on how UK maternal leave is lacking and unfair to women in the workforce in Harper's Bazaar cover profile
      



        Drake posts photo with Taylor Swift on Instagram as it's reported the two are working on music together
      



        Ruth Negga and Joel Edgerton in Loving movie review
      





























        Kim Kardashian denies another sex tape is out there
      



        Nicole Curtis opens up about struggles during custody battle
      



        Kaia Gerber on supermodel mom Cindy Crawford: 'I don't ever want to be in a photo next to her'
      





























        Kylie Jenner Looks Sexy as Hell for a Business Meeting (PHOTO GALLERY)
      



        Les Moonves: $500k for Tom Brady Jersey??? Even I Wouldn't Pay That! (VIDEO)
      



        Jeff Ross Says White House Correspondents' Dinner Would Be 'HUGE' If He Emceed!!! (VIDEO)
      
















































celebrity


fashion


tv


movies


music































          © 2017 EHM Productions, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.


In partnership with 
TMZ
 |
          
Privacy Policy
 |
          
AdChoices




























































































