 


















 








































































 










About


Archives


Authors


Comments Policy


Contact






























Analysis








Published on
 February 3rd, 2017 |
                
by Eli Clifton


0








Bannon Welcomed Islamophobes When CPAC Banned Them




Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
More
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)


by Eli Clifton


President Donald Trump’s senior advisor Stephen Bannon has spent the past two weeks consolidating power in the White House. He helped craft an executive order banning visitors from seven Muslim majority countries and, in an unusual appointment for a political adviser, is now a member of the National Security Council’s principals committee. Bannon’s extreme views—he described the “Judeo-Christian West” as at war with Islam in a 2014 talk at a conference at the Vatican—were covered in a 
must-read 
New York Times
 article on Wednesday, “Trump Pushes Dark View of Islam to Center for U.S. Policy-Making.” But Bannon’s role in promoting the most anti-Muslim and conspiratorial voices on the right goes further than has been previously highlighted.


The 
Times
 highlighted that:


Among the most outspoken of those warning about Islam are Pamela Geller, of Stop Islamization of America, Robert Spencer, of Jihad Watch, and Frank Gaffney Jr., of the Center for Security Policy.


All three were hosted by Mr. Bannon on his Breitbart radio program before he became chief executive of the Trump campaign in August. Mr. Gaffney appeared at least 34 times.


Indeed, 
Geller
, 
Spencer
, and 
Gaffney
 are some of the most fringe anti-Muslim activists.


In 2010, all three of them played prominent roles in hyping anti-Muslim conspiracy theories to block the construction of an Islamic community center in lower Manhattan, claiming as 
Geller dubbed it
, “the Islamic supremacist mosque at Ground Zero.”


In 
a 2013 report
, the Anti-Defamation League denounced Geller, 
who claimed
 that Obama is working to “appease his Islamic overlords.”


“Geller routinely attacks organizations that oppose her agenda and views, often employing inappropriate Holocaust terminology and imagery to deride mainstream Jewish civil rights organizations,” the ADL said. “Geller, who is herself Jewish, frequently uses the terms ‘Nazi,’ ‘Jewicidal’ and ‘neo-kapo’ to demonize these organizations.”


In the Center for American Progress’ 2011 report, 
Fear, Inc.: The Roots of the Islamophobia Network in America
, my co-authors and I write:


A prolific blogger, author, and commentator, Spencer is “the principal leader… in the new academic field of Islam bashing,” according to Robert Crane, a former deputy director of the U.S. National Security Council and former adviser to President Nixon. Spencer is the primary driver in promoting the myth that peaceful Islam is nonexistent and that violent extremism is inherent within traditional Islam. “Of course, as I have pointed out many times, traditional Islam itself is not moderate or peaceful,” Spencer said in June this year. “It is the only major world religion with a developed doctrine and tradition of warfare against unbelievers.”


In 2011, David Keene, then-chairman of the American Conservative Union, the organization that sponsors CPAC, 
told 
ThinkProgress
 that Gaffney “has become personal and tiresomely obsessed with his weird belief that anyone who doesn’t agree with him… [must be] dupes of the nation’s enemies.”


Gaffney, whose faulty research 
Donald Trump cited
 to justify his Muslim ban, has made a series of outlandish claims about Muslim Brotherhood infiltration of the U.S. government that culminated in his expulsion from the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in 2011. Among those claims, he baselessly accused anti-tax activist Grover Norquist and George W. Bush political appointee Suhail Khan of serving as agents of the Muslim Brotherhood.


Keen 
banned Gaffney
 from speaking at CPAC for two years. In 2013, Geller also found herself banned from CPAC, a decision 
she blamed
 on “the Grover Norquist/Suhail Khan cabal.”


Although CPAC effectively banned these anti-Muslim extremists, Bannon came to their rescue. The then-executive chairman of Breitbart News Network hastily assembled an event for Gaffney, Geller, and Spencer, among others, to present their anti-Muslim agenda alongside the 2013 CPAC events. Following the panel, Bannon kicked off the question-and-answer section of the event with a leading question, perhaps offering insight into his own worldview. Bannon said:


Let me ask one thing, and I’m trying to be a provocateur here. Why is everything we heard [we heard from this panel] just not the last gasp of a civilization that’s grasping towards military power. That’s just holding on against world demographics. That is just bitter and hate filled and nasty and mean and doesn’t see the world that is in front of us and what the United States is doing. Is that the reason you think you were uninvited [from CPAC]?


Gaffney answered by saying:


The world has never been a more peaceful place, a place in which more people benefited from the opportunity, though not enshrined in their constitutions as it is in ours’, to pursue life liberty and the pursuit of happiness, than when we are powerful. Not because we are waging war against everybody all the time but because we are able to help keep it from breaking out. Far from our last gasp, I hope this is a moment of renaissance.


Geller answered next:


This is the unending and continual battle of the human condition. This is an unending battle. It comes in different costumes. It comes in different cloaks. The essential battle in all of this, through history, is individualism versus collectivism. This is the battle. A hundred years ago it was communism, Stalinism, the National Workers Socialist Party, Nazism, and Islam. There is no unique soul in Islam. This is collectivism. The state versus the individual. That is the essence of this battle and I think we are losing it.


Bannon stood directly to her left, looking on approvingly. Gaffney, seated three seats to Geller’s right, nodded his head in agreement.


Watch it:




Photo: Frank Gaffney and Pamela Geller


Share this:
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
More
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)




Follow LobeLog on 
Twitter
 and like us on 
Facebook








About the Author






Eli Clifton reports on money in politics and US foreign policy. Eli previously reported for the American Independent News Network, ThinkProgress, and Inter Press Service.








Related Posts










Israeli Occupation Is Poisoning America’s Democracy
 →














Trump is Right on Palestine
 →














The Promise and Peril of H.R. McMaster
 →














Trump Must Not Recognize Israeli Annexation of Golan Heights
 →














Comments are closed.










Back to Top ↑




















Categories
Categories


Select Category


Afghanistan


Africa


Analysis


Azerbaijan


Bahrain


Central Asia


China


Drones


Economy


Egypt


Energy Markets


EU


France


GCC


Homeland Security


Human Rights


India


Iran


Iraq


Israel


Israel Palestine


Japan


Jordan


Latin America


Lebanon


Libya


Mali


Message


Michael LaSusa


military


News


Nigeria


North Korea


Oman


Pakistan


Political Islam


Qatar


Russia


Sanctions


Saudi Arabia


Syria


Tunisia


Turkey


UK


Ukraine


UN


US Domestic Policy


US Foreign Policy


Yemen












Subscribe to LobeLog




Enter your email address to subscribe to our site and receive notifications of new posts by email.


 



							Email Address						
























Popular Posts













								The Empty-Headedness of K.T. McFarland							

















								Why Is Trump Adviser Wearing Medal of Nazi Collaborators?							

















								The Promise and Peril of H.R. McMaster							

















								The Coming Showdown in Okinawa							

















								Trump is Right on Palestine							
















 


















 








The contents and comments are the personal views of the authors and do not represent the views of IPS news agency.










 
 
 








 
 
 
























Subscribe to LobeLog




Enter your email address to subscribe to our site and receive notifications of new posts by email.


 



							Email Address						






































© 2008-2017 LobeLog.com






Contact
About
Archives
Authors
Comments Policy








Back to Top ↑












Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address












Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			








































