































































































































Log In or Sign Up








Log In






Sign Up







































                
              Topics
              
                









                
              Trending
              
              







            more
            

























          Topics
          
            










Culture






Policy & Politics






World






Business & Finance






Technology










Science & Health






Identities






Energy & Environment






Explainers






Video










First Person






Podcasts






The Big Idea






New Money













            Trending
            
          




✕


















































Report: Donald Trump is deeply upset that SNL chose a woman to play Sean Spicer




And now Rosie O’Donnell wants to play Steve Bannon to troll the president.



  
    Updated by

    


Alex Abad-Santos





        Feb  7, 2017, 12:00pm EST
      

















          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        






















Melissa McCarthy’s impersonation
 of Sean Spicer on the February 4 episode of 
Saturday Night Live 
has already garnered over 16 million views on YouTube alone, in addition to the show’s strong ratings — 
Variety reports
 that 
SNL
’s audience this season is up 22 percent, or around 2 million more viewers than last year. While McCarthy’s hilarious sketch has drawn rave reviews, the sitting president of the United States, Donald Trump was not amused. 


Politico 
reported
: 




More than being lampooned as a press secretary who makes up facts, it was Spicer’s portrayal by a woman that was most problematic in the president’s eyes, according to sources close to him…


"Trump doesn't like his people to look weak," added a top Trump donor.


Trump’s uncharacteristic Twitter silence over the weekend about the “Saturday Night Live” sketch was seen internally as a sign of how uncomfortable it made the White House feel. Sources said the caricature of Spicer by McCarthy struck a nerve and was upsetting to the press secretary and to his allies, who immediately saw how damaging it could be in Trump world.




In light of Trump telling people that “
nobody has more respect for women than I do
,” it’s fascinating that what reportedly irks him most about the sketch is McCarthy’s gender, which he equates with weakness. How much McCarthy’s impersonation allegedly burned Trump also lends some new perspective to his rattled debate performances against Hillary Clinton (see: his reaction to being
 called a puppet
, or when he called Clinton a “
nasty woman”
) and 
his personal attacks on Meryl Streep
 after her fiery political acceptance speech at the Golden Globes last month. It raises the question of what kind of female behavior, exactly, President Trump approves of.


Trump’s irritation with 
SNL
 may only grow in the coming weeks. After word spread about how much McCarthy’s gender-bent Spicer irritated Trump, Twitter instigators sent out a call to Trump’s 
longtime foe Rosie O’Donnell
 to play Trump adviser Steve Bannon in an upcoming episode of 
SNL
 — a completely feasible scenario. O’Donnell tweeted yesterday that she’s more than game: 
 














Trump, 
@Rosie
, was upset that a staffer was played by a woman, and you do a great impression of him. Willing to take one for the team?
— Calvin Enemy Philips (@calvininsf) 
February 7, 2017












available - if called i will serve !!! 
https://t.co/LT84EJjfsw
— ROSIE (@Rosie) 
February 7, 2017








This Saturday, Alec Baldwin, who has been playing Trump in the show’s cold opens over the past few months, 
will be hosting the entire episode of 
SNL
. 










Was this article helpful?








Awesome, share it:











          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        
















Help us improve. Give us your feedback:




Your email address:






































Next Up In


Culture








Why Milo Yiannopoulos’s canceled book deal isn’t a moral win for conservative publishing






Oscar predictions 2017: Best Picture, Best Director, and the screenplay prizes






Bill Maher gave Milo Yiannopoulos a megaphone. Now he's claiming credit for Milo’s fall.






Hollywood needs more diversity. Judging movies by their trailers isn't the solution.






The hotline Hollywood calls for science advice






TBS comedy The Detour tears the family sitcom to shreds, and has fun doing it





































































      
        
          Most Read
        
      
    






















Donald Trump is dangerous when he’s losing






















Obama's White House photographer is now America's foremost purveyor of anti-Trump Instagram shade






















The fall of Milo Yiannopoulos, explained



























  This Article has a component height of 13. The sidebar size is medium.







































The Latest
























Why Milo Yiannopoulos’s canceled book deal isn’t a moral win for conservative publishing



  
    by

    


Constance Grady
@constancegrady








Yiannopoulos has demonstrated exactly where conservative publishing draws its line.




























This year’s Oscars Best Picture winner is … (La La Land, probably)



  
    by

    


Todd VanDerWerff
@tvoti








Check out our predictions in the Picture, Directing, and Screenplay categories.




























A viral blog post is forcing Uber to address its sexism problem



  
    by

    


Timothy B. Lee








CEO Travis Kalanick is promising to change Uber’s culture, but it won’t be easy.




























Bill Maher gave Milo Yiannopoulos a megaphone. Now he's claiming credit for Milo’s fall.



  
    by

    


German Lopez
@germanrlopez








The liberal TV host might be taking credit, but he had nothing to do with it.




























Republican lawmakers are getting an earful from their home districts



  
    by

    


Tara Golshan








"Shut your hole": Angry crowds are showing up to demand that Republicans defend Obamacare and oppose Trump.




























Muslims are fundraising for a vandalized Jewish cemetery



  
    by

    


Tara Golshan








They’ve raised more than $64,000 to help the cemetery near St. Louis rebuild.






































































Chorus










Terms of Use


Privacy Policy


Communications Preferences






Contact


Send Us a Tip


Community Guidelines


Masthead







  All Systems Operational
  
Check out our status page for more details.










Vox Media


Advertise with us


Jobs @ Vox Media

      
      © 2017 
Vox Media
, Inc. All Rights Reserved
      
      
    























          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        




























