

















 












 






























 
















































































































































































Finance
















































BI Intelligence


Events






 





































                                Trending                            







                                Tech Insider                            







                                Finance                            







                                Politics                            







                                Strategy                            







                                Life                            







                                Sports                            







                                Video                            







                                All                            














































 
















Ã—


















From












To












 























          You have successfully emailed the post.
        
















Ã—









     
















The head of the European Central Bank slammed Trump's efforts to slash Wall Street regulation


























Reuters














Feb.  6, 2017,  5:35 PM








1,787










 


















facebook












linkedin












twitter












email












print












 












xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?










ECB President Draghi testifies before the European
  Parliament's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee in
  Brussels


Thomson
  Reuters







  By Balazs Koranyi and Francesco Canepa


  FRANKFURT (Reuters) - The European Central Bank rejected U.S.
  accusations of currency manipulation on Monday and warned that
  deregulating the banking industry, now being openly discussed in
  Washington, could sow the seeds of the next financial crisis.


  Arguing that lax regulation had been a key cause of the global
  financial crisis a decade ago, ECB President Mario Draghi said
  the idea of easing bank rules was not just worrying but
  potentially dangerous, threatening the relative stability that
  has supported the slow but steady recovery.


  Draghi's words are among the strongest reactions yet from Europe
  since U.S. President Donald Trump ordered a review of banking
  rules with the implicit aim of loosening them. That raises the
  prospect of the United States pulling out of some international
  cooperation efforts.


  "The last thing we need at this point in time is the relaxation
  of regulation," Draghi told the European Parliament's committee
  on economic affairs in Brussels. "The idea of repeating the
  conditions that were in place before the crisis is something that
  is very worrisome."










  The ECB supervises the euro zone's biggest lenders.


  "BIG MISTAKE"


  Andreas Dombret, a member of the board of Germany's powerful
  central bank, the Bundesbank, said that reversing or weakening
  regulations all at once would be a "big mistake", because it
  would increase the chance of another financial crisis.


  "That is why I see a possible lowering of regulatory requirements
  in the U.S., which is under discussion, critically," said
  Dombret, who is also a member of the Basel committee drafting new
  global banking rules.


  Roberto Gualtieri, chairman of the European Parliament's economic
  and monetary affairs committee, also criticized Trump.


  "Some first concrete confirmations of a new more unilateral
  policy stance by the new U.S. administration, including on
  sensitive financial markets regulatory issues, raise concerns and
  require both thorough reflection and action from the EU side," he
  told the committee.


  Draghi's U.S. counterpart, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen,
  has come under pressure to step back from international
  regulatory cooperation.


  Indeed, an influential member of the Senate recently called on
  Yellen to end talks in forums like the Basel Committee on Banking
  and Supervision, some of whose proposed rules he said would
  disadvantage the United States.


  "It is incumbent upon all regulators to support the U.S. economy,
  and scrutinize international agreements that are killing American
  jobs," Patrick McHenry, the Vice Chairman of the Senate's
  Financial Services Committee, told Yellen.Â 


  MANIPULATOR


  Draghi also rebuffed accusations by Trump's top trade adviser
  that Germany, the euro zone's biggest economy, is using a grossly
  undervalued currency to take advantage of the United States. He
  argued instead that economic weakness is the main reason for the
  weak euro.


  Germany runs a massive trade surplus with the United States and
  Trump trade adviser Peter Navarro said it was now exploiting this
  to America's detriment, de facto accusing Berlin of currency
  manipulation.


  But Germany does not set monetary policy and has repeatedly
  complained that ECB policy is actually too easy, calling on
  Draghi to end its massive stimulus program.


  "First and foremost: we are not currency manipulators." Draghi
  said. "Second, our monetary policies reflect the diverse state of
  the (economic) cycle of the euro zone and the United States."


  "The single market would not survive with continuous competitive
  devaluations," Draghi said.


  But the ECB chief also said no policy tightening was coming as
  growth was still weak and faced with risks, while the inflation
  spike is still temporary, all indicating that monetary support is
  still needed.


  "Our monetary policy strategy prescribes that we should not react
  to individual data points and short-lived increases in
  inflation," Draghi said. "We therefore continue to look through
  changes in (harmonized) inflation if we believe they do not
  durably affect the medium-term outlook for price stability.


  Euro zone inflation hit 1.8 percent in January and is likely to
  exceed the ECB's target of almost 2 percent in the coming months,
  but underlying inflation is still half the headline figure.


  "So far underlying inflation pressures remain very subdued and
  are expected to pick up only gradually as we go on," Draghi said.
  "This lack of momentum in underlying inflation reflects largely
  weak domestic cost pressures."


  Â 


  (Reporting by Balazs Koranyi, Francesco Canepa and Andreas
  Framke; Editing by Catherine Evans)



Read the original article on 
Reuters
.  Copyright 2017. Follow Reuters on 
Twitter
.
 


More from Reuters:






The world's largest tech fund is considering a $1 billion plus investment in WeWork






Silicon Valley is financing the fight against Trump's immigration policy (BOX, NFLX, MSFT, AAPL)






Samsung just recalled nearly 3 million washing machines because they might explode






U.S. to meet target of admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees: White House






Fight for Syria's Aleppo exposes limits of Russian air power















            More:

                                                        
Reuters


































facebook












linkedin












twitter












email












print
































Ã—











                    Recommended For You
        
        


Powered by Sailthru




























































The head of the European Central Bank slammed Trump's efforts to slash Wall Street regulation


The head of the European Central Bank slammed Trump's efforts to slash Wall Street regulation




By Balazs Koranyi and Francesco...








































Recommended For You
















 






























Disclaimer


























































Featured














How this astronaut overcame failure and rejection to land his dream job






More "Idea Factory"Â Â»
 














We just created the best Google Chrome extension on the market for latest news headlines






More "BI Innovations"Â Â»
 










 












Finance
 Emails & Alerts
            


Get the best of Business Insider delivered to your inbox every day.


Sign-Up
















Get the Slide Deck from Henry Blodget's IGNITION Presentation on the Future of Digital






 


 


Read Business Insider On The Go


Available on iOS or Android


 
 
















Find A Job










Tech Jobs






C-Level Jobs










Media Jobs






Design Jobs










Finance Jobs






Sales Jobs










See All Jobs »












Thanks to our partners






























































Follow us on:


























Also check out:














* Copyright © 2017 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. 
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
                                                                
Terms of Service
                                and
                                                                                                
Privacy Policy
.




Disclaimer


Commerce Policy


Made in NYC










Stock quotes by 
finanzen.net








International Editions:


UK
DE
AUS
ID
IN
MY
SG
PL
SE
NL
FR
IT
JP
 


















