









































































Menu


















































Technology






Leadership






Magazine






Most Innovative Companies






Most Creative People






Video






News


































Subscribe





















































            Collections
            










The Most Innovative Companies


The top 50 companies in entertainment, media, sports, technology, and more.










Most Creative People


Meet this year's inspiring leaders.










Innovation By Design


A showcase for ingenious design solutions.










World Changing Ideas


New workplaces, new food sources, new medicine—even an entirely new economic system.










Out of Office With


Industry leaders offer a glimpse of their lives outside of the office--and how these experiences have
                        helped to get them where they are today.










Creative Conversations


Creative dialogue can reinvent your business, your brand, and your career. Join Fast Company on a
                        multi-platform exploration of the art of conversation.










Mind and Machine


Computers are getting smart--very smart. Fast Company explains the complex and increasingly
                        influential world of artificial intelligence and machine learning.










Master Class


How the top talent from creative fields get work done.










Startup Report


The up-and-coming companies that are disrupting industries.










Innovation Agents


Profiles of the high-level business leaders behind progressive, creative, and innovative organizations










Tech Forecast


A roundup of breaking tech news, products, and services featuring the most important takeaways.











                Current Issue
                










Subscribe






Follow Fast Company


We’ll come to you.












































02.02.17
 | 
6:21 am




One immigrant entrepreneur creates 159 American jobs on average












FundersClub 
has released metrics
 from its portfolio of immigrant entrepreneurs to see just how important they are to the U.S. economy. The results for the 39 FundersClub first-generation immigrants originally born in foreign countries:


	•	They started companies that have created an aggregate of 6,208 U.S. jobs. 


	•	Each founder creates an average of 159 U.S. jobs.


And the results for 82 FundersClub first-generation immigrants and second-generation immigrants (those born in America whose parents were born in a foreign country):


	•	They started companies that have created 7,632 U.S. jobs combined.


	•	Each founder creates an average of 127 U.S. jobs.








[Graphic: FundersClub]
 
MG














 FundersClub






 
















































































































02.22.17
 | 
an hour ago






Verizon 5G trials are coming to 11 cities but don’t get too excited yet














This summer, Verizon will kick off the largest U.S. trial yet for 5G wireless, offering it as 
a replacement for wired Internet
 in 11 cities. Data speeds could be 10 to 100 times faster than current cellular connections.


The telco industry has been hyping 5G&apos;s transformative potential for years, with promises of ubiquitous, blazing-fast connectivity. Verizon&apos;s trial is much more modest–it basically lets the company install internet in homes and businesses without running fiber to each building–and CNet notes that it will only cover several thousand customers. True 5G wireless isn&apos;t even an industry standard yet, and widespread adoption 
faces major obstacles
. 
JN


















 












































































Seize the day!




Get the FastCoNews daily newsletter and never miss out on the most important, compelling and thought-provoking news in the worlds of business, tech, and innovation.




















Send






























02.22.17
 | 
2 hours ago






Is Slack safe for journalists?














If you work in media (or most other tech-oriented jobs), chances are you&apos;ve come across Slack once or twice. It&apos;s an easy way to chat and collaborate with fellow employees. But with the future of press freedom growing murkier every day, are chatroom apps like Slack really the best way for journalists to communicate? The short answer is: 
If you care about things like security and confidentiality, probably not.
 
Read my latest feature to find out why
. 
CGW


















 














































































02.22.17
 | 
2 hours ago






Now your Instagram posts can be mini-albums of photos and videos














Ever since Instagram added its 
Snapchat-inspired Instagram Stories
 last August, it&apos;s concentrated on 
building out that feature
, which has become a 
runaway hit
. Today, however, it&apos;s announcing a major upgrade to Instagram in its classic form: the ability to upload multiple images and videos—up to 10 of them—in one album-like post.  


This being Instagram, the new feature has been implemented in a straightforward fashion: 
a new button lets you select multiple items
. Once you&apos;ve made your choices, you can apply a filter to all of them 
en masse
 or one at a time; only the 
classic Instagram square format
 is currently supported. People who view your feed can swipe to see them one by one, like a slideshow. Though there are some conceptual similarities to Stories, which also involve multiple pieces of media, there&apos;s nothing particularly Snapchatty about this new capability—especially since everything stays available forever rather than going poof after 24 hours.


 
HM














 Instagram






 














































































02.22.17
 | 
2 hours ago






Finally, Intel’s got some real competition when it comes to PC processors














AMD has spent months promising that its upcoming Ryzen CPUs for desktop PCs would beat rival Intel on both performance and price. With those chips due out next month, 
the perennial underdog has produced proof
:
 The high-end AMD R7 1800X will cost $499–less than half the price of Intel&apos;s i7-6900K–while tying or beating its rival in certain performance benchmarks. 
AMD also has cheaper versions in the $399 R7 1700X and $329 R7 1700, which beat comparable Intel chips by $40 and $20, respectively.


Intel, in turn, has expressed an 
appropriate amount of skepticism
 for AMD&apos;s benchmarks, and there are some scenarios in which Intel&apos;s chips excel. Intel could also cut prices or push new models to retain its edge. But isn&apos;t lighting a fire under the titan of PC processors precisely the point? 
JN














 intel






 
















































































































02.22.17
 | 
3 hours ago






Here are all the details on Apple Park, the company’s massive new spaceship campus














The much-anticipated 175-acre work and research campus will open to employees in April but the process of moving more than 12,000 people into the new facilities will take over six months, 
revealed 
Apple
 in a blog post today. 


Other details: 


• The campus&apos;s ring-shaped, 2.8 million-square-foot main building 
"is clad entirely in the world&apos;s largest panels of curved glass."


• To honor the memory of the company&apos;s legendary co-founder and longtime CEO, 
a 1,000-seat auditorium sitting on top of a hill will be named the Steve Jobs Theater.


• 
A visitors center will feature an Apple Store and cafe open to the public.


• A 100,000-square-foot fitness center for Apple employees.


• Two miles of walking and running paths, an orchard, meadow, and a pond.




 
MB














 Apple park






 














































































02.22.17
 | 
3 hours ago






If Snapchat wins, guess who loses?














Snap
 Inc. 
isn&apos;t profitable yet, but it will need to double down on a monetization plan after it goes public next month. One logical path is an ad-selling strategy that resembles the TV industry, according a new research note from analyst Michael Nathanson. Given Snapchat&apos;s notably young user base, that&apos;s bad news for incumbent media companies aimed at young audiences—specifically 
Viacom
, whose key brands include MTV. As Nathanson explains, 
there is only so much ad spend to go around
: "If Snap can win traditional TV dollars, budget will most likely come from those with the greatest exposure to the 12-24 demographic," he writes. 


Unless we needed more proof, Snap already snapped up Viacom&apos;s Jeff Lucas as its global head of sales. "[I]t would seem logical that 
Lucas will target the brand advertisers and categories
 that are endemic to Viacom&apos;s networks," Nathanson writes.




[Photo: Snapchat]   
   
CZ














 Snapchat IPO






 


































































































02.22.17
 | 
3 hours ago






Even cowboys love direct-to-consumer fashion
















If you&apos;re not from Texas, you might not fully understand the subtle nuances of the cowboy boot. There&apos;s a wide range of options in this $3 billion industry, from the $40 pair you pick up at Target to $12,000 alligator skin pair you have handmade by a specialist. 


Paul Hedrick, a 28-year old Texan who went to Harvard then worked at McKinsey, decided to give the cowboy boot the Everlane treatment. 
A year ago, he launched direct-to-consumer brand called 
Tecovas
. He works with one of the oldest boot-making factories and tanneries in the world in Leon, Mexico, to produce high-quality men and women&apos;s boots that would ordinarily sell for $500. But by selling them on a website, he&apos;s able to charge less than $200. 


"It was so clear to me that this model would work with cowboy boots," Hedrick tells 
Fast Company
. He was right: In his first year in business, he generated $2 million in sales and he expects to make eight figures in his second year. When a boot sells out, the brand now gets wait lists of more than 2,000 customers waiting for it to be restocked. It goes to show that there are still many industries that stand to be disrupted by the direct-to-consumer model. 
 
ES


















 














































































02.22.17
 | 
4 hours ago






Ready to fly super cheap with zero perks? Here’s where you can go














American Airlines just began selling tickets for its discounted "Basic Economy" class aimed at travelers who want to fly on the cheap and don&apos;t mind giving up overhead bin space. 
Some customers see such trade-offs as part of the airline industry&apos;s 
ongoing race to the bottom in terms of perks
, but they are nevertheless slowly becoming the norm. AA&apos;s low-cost fares are good beginning March 1. The fares are 
being offered
 on the following routes: 


• New Orleans (MSY) – Philadelphia (PHL)


• Orlando (MCO) – Charlotte (CLT)


• Charlotte (CLT) – Philadelphia (PHL)


• Miami (MIA) – Philadelphia (PHL)


• Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW) – Philadelphia (PHL)


• Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW) – Tampa (TPA)


• Baltimore-Washington (BWI) – Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW)


• Miami (MIA) – Tampa (TPA)


• Fort Lauderdale (FLL) – Phildelphia (PHL)


• Miami (MIA) – New Orleans (MSY)


And here&apos;s the 
full list of restrictions
.


Meanwhile, United Airlines began offering its low-cost airfare this week to travelers in 
Minneapolis/St. Paul
. Read the full report on NBC News 
here
. 
CZ


















 
















































































































02.22.17
 | 
4 hours ago






A lot of retail tech is freaking customers out














When retailers catch wind of a new technology, they often implement it into stores without thinking about whether customers really want it, Kim Bhasin of 
Bloomberg
 reports. In late 2014, for instance, 
Rebecca Minkoff
 installed smart mirrors in her stores, but 
a recent poll showed that only 18% of customers think these mirrors are a good idea
. 


Perhaps the smarter approach is to think about what customers are looking for in their shopping experience, then using technology to make this happen. This is what Yael Aflalo recently tried to do with her new 
San Francisco store
: Responding to feedback about messy racks and chaotic changing rooms, she reconfigured the store to provide a lot more space for customers to try on clothing and replaced racks with a screen that allows you to scan the inventory. 




[Photo: via Reformation]
 
ES














 rebecca minkoff






 














































































02.22.17
 | 
9:02 am






Netflix is grossing people out with these “Santa Clarita Diet” ads














One of the billboards for the  
Drew Barrymore
 zombie comedy is 
so graphic that it was taken down in Germany
, 
AdWeek
 
reports
. The ad featured a severed finger, chopped in little pieces and doused in seasoning. Let&apos;s just say it wasn&apos;t even the grossest of the bunch. Look, it&apos;s too early—
we&apos;ll just link to them
. 




[Photo: 
Netflix
]  
 
CZ














 drew barrymore






 














































































02.22.17
 | 
9:00 am






At last: a standard contract to protect freelancers














Freelancers Union and And Co are 
launching the 
first common, standard agreement
 to protect freelance workers 
today. 


The basic template can be customized to suit the needs of the individual and the parameters of the project. For example, freelancers can add components dealing with intellectual property, cancellation fees, and different licensing agreements. 


This standard contract is also compliant with the 
new N.Y.C. law, 
which mandates that employers pay freelancers within 30 days of completing their work. 
LD














 freelancers






 














































































02.22.17
 | 
7:31 am






On Snap IPO roadshow, investors worry about “elephant in the room”














And that elephant is named Instagram, 
Bloomberg
 reports
. Ahead of its IPO next week, 
on Tuesday investors at the company&apos;s roadshow presentation in New York voiced concern over the future of Snapchat&apos;s user growth, given that Facebook-owned Instagram has been so successful in cloning Snapchat&apos;s time-limited video sharing features
. The investors worry that Instagram is the reason for Snapchat&apos;s recent slowdown in new users, and not, as Snap insists, a product issue with the Android Snapchat app. One thing investors did like, however, was when Snap CEO Evan Spiegel said that the company is open to building its own data centers in the future. 
MG














 Snap






 


























































































































Advertise


Privacy Policy


Terms


About Us








Fast Company & Inc ©  Mansueto Ventures, LLC
                                
































