









Skip to main content




































Login






Register










 




 






Classifieds








CarsHQ


JobsHQ


HomesHQ


ApartmentsHQ


Classifieds


Marketplace


 




 


 














 




The Daily Republic


















 




Search 










 




 












 














 




 


 


















Search


Sections








Home
news
Headlines
Trump expected to revoke rules on transgender bathrooms, draft suggests
ACLU sues Milwaukee, widening challenge to police stop-and-frisk
Pipeline protesters pray, set fires ahead of camp closing 
Woman charged in reservation death accepts plea deal 
South Dakota House panel votes to table abortion measure 
More Topics
local
state
nation
politics
crime
business
Headlines
Lego replaces long-time CEO with first foreign boss in organizational shake-up
Instagram will soon let you like comments - or even turn them off completely
Google looks for 'conservative outreach' manager after Trump election win
McDonald's revamps $4 billion McCafe brand as it lags Starbucks
Amazon opening store that will eliminate checkout lines
agriculture
Headlines
 Consignment sale brings huge crowd, unique animals to Platte
AgweekTV: McMartin Jr. files for bankruptcy
South Dakota lawmakers consider beef labeling proposal 
U.S. corn farmers worry as Mexico woos South American suppliers
Official: Cattle prices have stabilized
sports
Headlines
500-year-old elk antler found by Minnesota diver
Tigers end Golden Eagles' campaign in 8B playoffs
Yankton girls edge Kernels
Bucks knock down Kernels
Area basketball roundup: Hawks squeak past Huskies in District 8B opener
More Topics
prep
college
pro
kernels
tigers
life
Headlines
Couple plans March wedding
Colome man marks 90th birthday
Mitchell woman celebrated 85 years
Local couple weds in October ceremony
Former Mitchell man celebrates 80th birthday
More Topics
entertainment
food
obituaries
Headlines
Pauline C. (Rowe) Fogarty
Marvis Jean Godber
Christopher Russell
Lori Joachim
Hazel F. Wipf
opinion
Headlines
WOSTER: A presidential decision to celebrate birthdays
DAUGAARD: Steps forward in mental health
ROZUM: Here comes crossover day
GRAVES: The sweets bring a sparkle to the eye
OPINION: Manuals are becoming entertaining to read
More Topics
editorials
columns
letters
outdoors
Headlines
Wiltz: Excitement in elk hunting and ice fishing
Pheasant Country chapter honored for habitat efforts
GF&P, SDSU partnering for five-year project to equip birds with radio collars
Wiltz: Sage grouse receive big bucks
No-fee promise comes into canyon debate 
More Topics
hunting
fishing
milestones
Headlines
Marcella and Elmer Werning
Mary Ellen 
Louise Metcalf
Lorenzen-Flake
 Joe Vasek
More Topics
anniversaries
birthdays
engagements
weddings
births
fundraisers
 




 




 






















Weather Forecast


Close






Forecast


Radar




















 


 


















 




 


 


















 




 


 










 






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Proposed fine against Dakota Access company to get hearing 




By 
Associated Press


 on Feb 4, 2017  at 10:43 a.m.












BISMARCK, N.D. (AP) — The developer of the Dakota Access pipeline will have to present evidence at a hearing to prove the company didn't willfully violate North Dakota rules when it failed to provide details of how it planned to avoid disturbing Native American artifacts during construction, state regulators said.




Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners last October diverted construction of the $3.8 billion pipeline around artifacts without running the plan by the Public Service Commission, which oversees pipelines. Commission staffers say that warrants a fine of at least $15,000, even though the artifacts weren't disturbed.
ETP maintains it didn't intentionally violate state rules and that public comments in November by Public Service Commission Chairwoman Julie Fedorchak illustrate the minor nature of the incident. Fedorchak said she was "disappointed" with the developer's conduct but acknowledged it might have resulted from miscommunication within the company.
The three-member commission on Tuesday rejected the company's request to dismiss the complaint, saying whether there was a willful violation should be determined at a hearing. The commission's order also contends Fedorchak's comments aren't relevant.
"Commissioner Fedorchak has the ability to speak for herself, but only the Commission can speak for the Commission," the order states.
The Associated Press left a message for ETP spokeswoman Vicki Granado asking for comment Friday.
An administrative law judge will oversee the hearing, but the commission will make the final decision on a fine. The hearing wasn't immediately scheduled.
The four-state, 1,200-mile pipeline would transport North Dakota oil to Illinois. Work is stalled due to a dispute over whether Energy Transfer Partners has permission to lay pipe under Lake Oahe, a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota that's the source of drinking water for the Standing Rock Sioux. The Army this week began reviewing an earlier decision not to grant permission until more study is done about the tribe's fears that a pipeline leak would contaminate its water.
Protests against the pipeline have resulted in nearly 700 arrests in southern North Dakota since August. The most recent came Wednesday, when American Indian activist Chase Iron Eyes and 73 others were arrested after a group of protesters set up teepees on land that authorities say is owned by the pipeline developer. Protesters said they were peacefully assembling on land they believe rightfully belongs to American Indians.
Iron Eyes was charged Friday with inciting a riot, a felony that carries a maximum punishment of five years in prison. He also faces a misdemeanor count of criminal trespass. Iron Eyes, who made an unsuccessful bid for Congress last fall, told The Associated Press that he feels he was unfairly targeted because he's a public figure and has been a vocal opponent of the pipeline. He said he will plead not guilty and fight the charges.
The Army Corps of Engineers said on Friday that it notified remaining protesters camped near Lake Oahe that the government-owned land will be closed beginning Feb. 22 because of a threat of injury or death from flooding. The Corps said there also is a danger of debris and waste from the camp polluting the Cannonball River and the lake.




Explore related topics:
News
state
Dakota Access Pipeline
Advertisement














 














Trending








1. 
Monster on the mat: Chamberlain's Hutmacher after state title 






2. 
A father on his way to work, a son on his way home and a tragic head-on collision






3. 
Area basketball roundup: Hawks squeak past Huskies in District 8B opener






4. 
Mitchell woman gets nine years in prison for involvement in kidnapping, other charges






5. 
Tigers end Golden Eagles' campaign in 8B playoffs




more 
〉






Latest








Trump expected to revoke rules on transgender bathrooms, draft suggests
9 min ago






ACLU sues Milwaukee, widening challenge to police stop-and-frisk
53 min ago






500-year-old elk antler found by Minnesota diver
1 hour ago






Pipeline protesters pray, set fires ahead of camp closing 
1 hour ago






Woman charged in reservation death accepts plea deal 
1 hour ago




more 
〉


















 












 








Top Ads

















      SHIH TZU puppies 2 females & 1 male, $250 ea.  Mitchell, 605-999-7233 or 308-350-1554    



















      MCLAREN OTT lay over rubber tracks for skid loader, go over 12x16.5 tires, $2200 OBO. 605-770-1945 Mitchell    



















      NEW HOUSE: 1600 square ft. Open floor plan, 3 bdrms with Master Suite. Main floor laundry. In new development in Alexandria, SD. Asking $185,500.    



















      80 +/- ACRES Pasture/crop. 5 mi. NE of Mitchell, w/rural water. Possible land contract. 605-933-0278    



















      COLLECTORS Complete set of Longarm paperback western books, volumes 1-436. Evenings 605-539-9535.    



















      HUGE SPORTS CARD COLLECTION Baseball, Basketball, Football, Hockey, Racing, Nonsports & much, much more. All organized by player & team.    



















      NEW CZ-USA 20 gauge shotgun, 720 semi auto, 28 in barrel, $550. 605-999-2962    



















      MONTGMERY Ward, 10 inch radio arm saw, good condition, asking $175.   605-384-3129    leave  message.    



















      NEW 6500 watt gas 13 HP generator, $500 OBO. Call 605-995-5924    



















      ONE EYED JACKS Casino or on sale liquor license for sale in Mitchell, SD. Call 605-521-4725    



















      ALFAFA SQUARE BALES, 4th cutting, approx. 70 lbs., $6 per bale. Call 605-933-0278    



















      ALFALFA ROUND bales, 190 1st cutting, 140 2nd cutting, 35 3rd cutting, 50 4th cutting. Tests are 20-22 protein, 125-187 RFV.  Call Craig Lambert,    












View all top ads »


 












 












 












 




 


















 




 


 










Account




Manage My Account


Manage Home Delivery
 
Privacy Policy


Terms and Conditions










Newspaper




Subscribe to the Paper
 
Buy Newspaper Prints










Contact




Contact Us


Get Website Help


Work With Us










More




JobsHQ


CarsHQ


HomesHQ


Northland Outdoors


Agweek


Impact Magazine










Social




 Areavoices


 Twitter
 Facebook
 
 RSS Feeds






 




















 
Forum Communications Company


3.0




© The Daily Republic


Forum Communications Company




 
websitesupport@forumcomm.com


© The Daily Republic
 and
    
Forum Communications Company




120 South Lawler


Mitchell
, 
      
South Dakota


57301




    Call us at 
(605) 996-5514




 




 


 






 














