





















































 






Skip to main content


Skip to site navigation
 


















Education Writers Association




EWA.org














Topics
All Topics
2016 Elections


P-12


Higher Education










Events
Upcoming Events


EWA National Seminar








Past Events
Higher Ed Data


Charter Schools












Resources
Directories
Jobs


Sources


Press Releases


Post to Directories






Education News
Latest News


The Educated Reporter




Higher Ed Beat


Latino Ed Beat




EWA Radio


Newsletters








Reporter's Toolbox
State of the Ed Beat


Reporter Guides


The Public Editor




Ed Reform Glossary


Tuition Tracker


EWA Listservs




Fellowship










Awards
2016 Awards
2016 EWA National Awards for Education Reporting


Eddie Award


Hechinger Prize


Past Awards










About
Announcements


Contact Us


Sponsorship Opportunities


EWA Funders
Major funders of EWA


Governance
Boards & Committees


Strategic Plan


Bylaws










Join
Join EWA
Refer A Member
Know someone that would benefit from EWA membership?






Update Your Info






Donate






























WT Grant 16












































Topic
















 








Search


Menu




























More options








 


 




















Blog: The Educated Reporter
 




The Education Secretaries Betsy DeVos Would Follow








January 31, 2017
 
Emily Richmond
 








A Senate committee is slated to vote tomorrow on President Donald Trump’s nominee for U.S. secretary of education — philanthropist and school choice advocate Betsy DeVos. The Education Department is one of the newer federal departments, created during President Jimmy Carter’s administration and beginning its work in May of 1980.


The department’s 
stated mission 
is to “supplement and complement the efforts of states, the local school systems and other instrumentalities of the states, the private sector, public and private nonprofit educational research institutions, community-based organizations, parents, and students to improve the quality of education.” If approved, DeVos will oversee a department with about 4,400 employees (including political appointees) an operating budget of about $68 billion.


If confirmed, DeVos would be the 11th U.S. secretary of education. Here are some fast facts (and a few quirky tidbits) about the other 10 people to hold this Cabinet-level post:






1. Shirley Hufstedler
 (1979-81)

		Appointed by: Jimmy Carter


As the nation’s first education secretary, Hufstedler also became the highest-ranking woman in the federal branch. Hufstedler was one of 72 women featured in a debut set of “feminine” trading cards, intended to compete with male-dominated cards for professional sports. The original set is now on display in the Museum of Modern Art in New York.








2 . Terrel Bell 
(1981-85)

		Appointed by: Ronald Reagan


Prior to the creation of the U.S. Department of Education, Bell was the nation’s highest-ranking education official, serving as the U.S. commissioner of education under presidents Nixon and Ford. A member of the Mormon church, Bell focused early in his tenure on trying to ban “controversial” books from schools, including “The Catcher in the Rye,” “Lord of the Flies,” and “Slaughterhouse-Five.” According to 
a 1981 profile
 of him, Bell’s “favorite dish is pumpkin pie, but he’s also fond of a late-night snack of a bowl of bread and milk.”








3 . William Bennett
 (1985-88)

		Appointed by: Ronald Reagan


Bennett is the author and editor of “The Children’s Book of Virtues,” later developed into an animated television series by PBS. In 2003, several news outlets reported that the 
“relentless moral crusader is a relentless gambler, too.”
 While Bennett acknowledged his gambling activities and said that over a decade of betting he likely broke even, subsequent news stories estimated his losses during that time frame at around $8 million.








4. Lauro Cavazos
 (1988-90)

		Appointed by: Ronald Reagan


A Democrat, Cavazos was the first Hispanic to serve in a president’s Cabinet, and served under two Republican chief executives: Reagan and George H.W. Bush. But Cavazos and Bush clashed over the administration’s decision to bar federal aid from colleges and universities that offered scholarships specifically to minority students. Cavazos’ “terse” resignation letter
 “omitted the customary thanks
 to the President for the honor of serving in the Cabinet,” according to The New York Times.








5. Lamar Alexander 
(1991-93)

		Appointed by: George H. W. Bush


Alexander is the chairman of the Senate committee responsible for vetting DeVos. He praised DeVos during her confirmation hearing this month. As a senator, Alexander was a key architect of the federal Every Student Succeeds Act, which replaced the No Child Left Behind Act as the main federal law for K-12 education. He also served two terms as governor of Tennessee and made two unsuccessful bids for president (in 1996 and 2000). Known for his penchant for plaid shirts, Alexander is a classically trained pianist, and his inspired performance of a Jerry Lee Lewis song brought down the house at a festival in Memphis in 1982 … when he was governor of Tennessee. In 2008, 
he opened for The Four Tops
, performing with the Memphis Symphony Orchestra and an audience of 20,000.








6. Richard Riley
 (1993-2001)

		Appointed by: Bill Clinton


Riley turned down Clinton’s first offer: to be nominated for a spot on the U.S. Supreme Court. That vacancy was eventually filled by Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Riley was so popular as South Carolina’s Democratic governor that the state’s constitution was amended to enable him to run for, and eventually serve, a second term. After his tenure as education secretary Riley was named a distinguished professor at his alma mater, Furman University. In 2001, Washington Post columnist David Broder called Riley one of the “most decent and honorable people in public life.”








7. Rod Paige
 (2001-05)

		Appointed by: George W. Bush


Paige came to Washington after serving as the superintendent of the Houston school district. He is the only U.S. education secretary to have prior experience as a university football coach — and a highly successful one, at that. Among the notable players he recruited and coached at Jackson State University from 1964-68 was Lem Barney, who went on to play for the Detroit Lions and was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame. The No Child Left Behind Act was approved during Paige’s tenure as education secretary. Also during his tenure, the department revised Title IX language to allow 
single-sex classrooms in public schools
, provided participation was optional.








8. Margaret Spellings
 (2005-09)

		Appointed by: George W. Bush


As an advisor to the president prior to her appointment, Spellings helped to write the No Child Left Behind Act. She appeared on Celebrity Jeopardy in 2006, coming in second to actor Michael McKean. Now president of the University of North Carolina system, Spellings recently 
told NPR
 that “the reason we’ve moved the needle for poor and minority students is because we’ve cared enough to find out how they’re doing and made them a priority … The federal role in education is, and has always been, a civil rights focus.”








9. Arne Duncan
 (2009-15)

		Appointed by: Barack Obama


Duncan’s prowess on the basketball court is well known. Following college, he played professionally in Australia for four years, after being turned down for the Boston Celtics. He was a standout for the NBA All-Star Celebrity Games from 2011 to 2014. Duncan’s decision to issue waivers to states from some of NCLB’s requirements (a response to the long delay by Congress in reauthorizing the federal education law) was decried as overreaching his authority by some Republican lawmakers. ESSA 
now prohibits
 the office of the education secretary from incentivizing states to adopt — or reject — specific academic standards — a response to Duncan’s push on behalf of the Common Core.








10. John B. King, Jr.
 (2016-17)

		Appointed by: Barack Obama


As a student at Phillips Exeter Academy, King rebelled against the strict rules of the elite New England boarding school, and was expelled during his junior year. “I sort of resented adult authority,” he told The 
New York Times
. “At the time, I felt like adults had let me down in my life.” He later graduated from Harvard, and 
began his career
 teaching high school social studies in Boston and Puerto Rico. King also co-founded a charter school and served as New York commissioner of education.


King earned a law degree from Yale, as well as a master’s in education and a doctoral degree in educational leadership from Columbia University. As of last year, King was 
still paying off his student loans
.




 






Have a question, comment or concern for the Educated Reporter? Contact 
Emily Richmond
. Follow her on Twitter 
@EWAEmily
.


Read other Educated Reporter articles.
 














This item appears in




Back
This item appears in:
2016 U.S. Elections


Blog: The Educated Reporter


Common Core


Topic: ESSA


Sexual Assault & Title IX


Federal K-12 Funding


Federal K-12 Reform


Standards & Testing


 


 






Print-friendly
 


 












Profile
 






Emily Richmond




Public Editor










April 25, 2013
 






Emily Richmond is the public editor of the Education Writers Association.
 






Send message
 




Read more


 
Follow Emily Richmond


 






 


 














Related Posts










Blog: The Educated Reporter
 






For Trump Pick DeVos, Confirmation Hearing Is a Bear










January 18, 2017
 
Emily Richmond
 






Tuesday’s confirmation hearing for billionaire school advocate Betsy DeVos — President-elect Donald Trump’s pick for U.S. secretary of education — was a doozy.


DeVos sought to present herself as ready to oversee the federal agency, but some of her remarks suggested a lack of familiarity with the federal laws governing the nation’s schools.


In her opening statement before the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, DeVos said:
 




Read more


 












Blog: The Educated Reporter
 






Arne Duncan: Education Is ‘Great Equalizer’ But Not Yet National Priority










April 21, 2015
 
Alyson Klein of Education Week for EWA
 






U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan subjected himself to what might have been the ultimate edu-press conference in Chicago Tuesday, allowing hundreds of reporters to grill him on testing, No Child Left Behind, college ratings (and yes, White Suburban moms) at the Education Writers Association’s 68th National Seminar. 
 




Read more


 






 


 








 


 






Back to Top


























Menu Pod
 






70th EWA National Seminar




Register for EWA's Premier Conference










January 24, 2017
 










Read more


 
















Menu Pod
 






School Climate & Safety










November 17, 2016
 










Read more


 
















Menu Pod
 






Sponsorship & Message Opportunities




EWA can help your organization's outreach.










January 15, 2016
 










Read more


 
















Menu Pod
 






Back-to-School: You Need Stories, We’ve Got Ideas




Watch a Recording










January 14, 2016
 










Read more


 
















Menu Pod
 






Student Data Privacy




EWA Story Lab










January 14, 2016
 










Read more


 
















Menu Pod
 






Making Sense of Education Research




EWA Reporter Guides










May 21, 2015
 










Read more


 
















Menu Pod
 






EWA Reporting Awards




Learn More










November 26, 2014
 










Read more


 
















Menu Pod
 






Summer Learning




What happens to the knowledge kids accumulate during the school year when the warmer months hit?










January 9, 2014
 










Read more


 
















Menu Pod
 






Tuition Tracker




How much does college really cost?










January 9, 2014
 










Read more


 










 


 
















Footer link
 






Education Writers Association










July 25, 2013
 










Read more


 














Footer link
 






3516 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008










July 25, 2013
 










Read more


 










 


 














Log in








E-mail or username: 
*








Password: 
*








 Remember me






Request new password










 




Commands






Help


Log in






 






























