















































Briefly


Grist 50


Video


Justice


Food


Climate & Energy


Cities


Living


Science


People


Advice




Follow




Get our newsletter


Grist on Facebook


Follow on Twitter






About Grist


Contact




More




The Team


Donate


Fellowships


Jobs at Grist


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use








 


 












Briefly






Grist 50






Video






Sections






Newsletter






Donate






More










 










 




























News


Climate & Energy


Justice


Cities


Politics










Food


Living


Business & Tech


Science










Video


People


Advice


Grist 50


















Get Grist in your inbox






 





















									Briefly								



									Daily								



									Weekly								



									Shift Happens								










Privacy Policy
































About Grist


Contact


Staff & Board


Funders


Jobs


Fellowships


FAQ










Advertise


Sponsorship policy


Testimonials


Grist on your site


Donation FAQ










Terms of Service


Privacy Policy


Trademarks
























 


 














 
Peg Hunter
 






The Big Bank Theory
 
Is your bank funding the Dakota Access Pipeline? Here’s how to find a new bank.






By 
Ask Umbra®



								 on Nov 10, 2016															










Share






Tweet
















Q.
 
Dear Umbra,


I’ve been looking to switch banks for some time and the 
recent events in North Dakota
 have made my desire to fire Bank of America all the more urgent. I’m having a hard time finding information about banking institutions that are financially supportive of environmentally sustainable and socially responsible projects — or even banks that aren’t bankrolling dirty energy projects. For someone who is interested in changing banks, but who still needs some of the perks a big bank can offer, what are the best options? 


Meredith


Philadelphia, Pennsylvania




A.
 Dearest Meredith,


When it comes to banks, we tend to pay the most attention to the stuff that directly affects us: interest rates, overdraft fees, whether or not our local branch gives away free lollipops (or is that just me?). It’s easy to overlook the fact that banks do a lot more than just babysit our hard-earned dollars. They also get their fingers in all kinds of investments and deals, including those that support energy projects such as the 
Dakota Access Pipeline
 — a 1,172-mile pipeline that would carry oil from North Dakota across four states, and carry a whole lotta 
polluting
 and 
racist
 baggage too. This 
controversial
 project would not be possible without cash from a number of big banks.


So welcome to the latest episode of Big Banks Behaving Badly! You’re right that 
Bank of America is one
 of the institutions funding the company that’s building the Dakota Access Pipeline — along with 
dozens of other banks
, including Citibank, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs, and JPMorgan Chase. Environmentalists are 
targeting those banks
 and calling on them to halt the funding, and one Norwegian bank is now 
considering pulling out
 of the project.


You’re also right that plenty of the biggies support other fossil fuel development projects, from coal mining to deep-water oil drilling. 
This 2016 report card
 from the Rainforest Action Network grades the major banks on exactly this, and finds that many of them — 
including Bank of America
 — deserve to be sent to summer school.


So if we want our banks to better represent our green values, we know who 
not
 to patronize. But who 
is
 worthy of handling our stacks? Here are a few options:


Big banks that support renewable energy

The megabanks aren’t exclusively funding fossil fuels; many are also backing solar and wind power projects. 
Bloomberg
 has checked into which institutions have been supporting renewables and cutting their own carbon emissions. European banks are leading the way, but JPMorgan Chase cracked the top 10 in 2014. Still, even as Chase and 
other banks
 put money into renewables, they continue to show up as bad actors on RAN’s fossil-fuel report card. If money talks, these banks are talking out of both sides of their mouths — so read on for alternatives.


Credit unions

I’m a huge 
fan of credit unions
: They’re nonprofits, they usually offer excellent interest rates and low fees, and they invest in local projects rather than dirty international dealings. I’m not sure what perks you’re looking for, Meredith, but credit unions offer plenty of services just like the Wall Street outfits do — so I encourage you to 
check out
 what’s available in your area.


Community development banks

You say “socially responsible projects,” I think “
community development bank
.” These institutions (which can also be 
credit unions
) might not focus specifically on eco-friendly investments, but they do make a point of serving the financially underserved: local people, institutions, businesses, and nonprofits that might not qualify for loans elsewhere. These aren’t available everywhere (though I did find 
one
 in Philly); search 
here
 to see if there are options near you.


Best of luck in your quest for a new home for your money! Switching banks takes a little bit of logistical wrangling, but it’s well worth the, er, investment (here are 
tips
 and 
step-by-step directions
). And make sure to tell your current institution exactly why you’re bailing. How will things ever get better if the big guys don’t know what they’re doing wrong?


Capitally,

Umbra










Share






Tweet












Hi, Grist reader!
 Since you clicked on the comments, would you be willing to give us feedback to help us improve them?
				If so, 
please click here to take a short survey
.


×




Please read our policy before commenting.






Grist's comments only work with JavaScript. Please enable and refresh the page.







					Show 
comments






















Get Grist in your inbox






 





















									Briefly								



									Daily								



									Weekly								



									Shift Happens								










Privacy Policy






















































Editors' Picks
















no rain delay
 
The dam truth: Climate change means more Lake Orovilles


California's climate has always been extreme, but this is ridiculous.
















Cover Story
 
In California farm country, Trump’s deportation threat looms large


This is what life is like now for the people who grow your food.
















Trump Tracker
 
Trump’s environmental assault continues, and now he’ll have Pruitt as a henchman


A month in, here's an account of the administration's impact on public health and the planet.


















Recent Posts
















Opinion
 
Why the People’s Climate March matters to people of color like me


We don't have to see this moment as a crisis. It's an opportunity to start building a diverse, national movement to defend our environment.
















separation anxiety
 
Watch the ever-growing rift in Antarctica’s fourth biggest ice shelf


The crack now stretches more than 100 miles in length.
















Guest post
 
How a climate-friendly flour company built a flourishing market


Portland-based Shepherd’s Grain sells not only high-quality flour. It also sells the story of no-till farming.




















exhausted
 
Nearly 8,000 U.S. public schools are plagued by toxic air


Across the country, kids attend schools so close to busy roads that traffic exhaust poses a health risk.
















climate desk
 
Coders to the rescue for NASA’s Earth science data


They’re archiving data and keeping track of what’s being removed.
















climate desk
 
The unsolved mystery of an ocean protector’s disappearance


185 environmental advocates died in 2015. One was an American named Keith Davis.




















Push Back
 
Jam the courts, blow the whistles, shut down the kitchen: Here are The Resistance’s latest strategies


People are calling out Trump and his administration in meaningful, productive ways all across the land.
















climate desk
 
Senate confirms Pruitt for EPA without bothering to read his emails


Take deep breath -- that clean air may not be around much longer.
















climate desk
 
Trump plans to target the EPA with new executive orders


The orders are expected as soon as Pruitt’s sworn in.












Next Page
 












loading more stories…
















A Beacon in the Smog
®


© 1999-2017 Grist Magazine, Inc. All rights reserved. Grist is powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
.




































































































































