











































Home


Politics


Opinion


About Palmer Report


 








































Menu
















Home


Politics


Opinion


About Palmer Report


 














 













			Donald Trump is pissed that Steve Bannon tricked him into National Security Council addition					


By 
Bill Palmer
 | 
February 5, 2017
 | 
0 
 








 


16284
SHARES
Share
Tweet
Subscribe
Google
Whatsapp
Pinterest
Linkedin
















It now appears that the honeymoon between Donald Trump and Steve Bannon may already be officially over. As various top White House staffers continue to leak embarrassing insider details to newspapers, it’s provided a near-daily glimpse into how the chaotic Trump administration is playing out. The latest: Trump wasn’t briefed on what he was signing when he signed off on the executive order adding Bannon to the National Security Council – and now he’s pissed at Bannon.


Impeach Trump Now


This revelation may sound outrageous, but it’s coming straight from the New York Times, which has an inside source. The story goes that Donald Trump didn’t bother to read the executive order that was placed in front of him which reorganized the National Security Council, and wasn’t told that he was elevating Steve Bannon above the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. When the inevitable backlash exploded, only then did Trump learn what he had signed off on. And he’s more outraged at that particular bit of trickery than he was when federal judges shut down his Muslim ban.


Is Trump a Russian spy?


The timing of this leak is notable in that it comes after Palmer Report 
helped to expose
 the obscure and never-tested statute which gives the Senate the power to advise and content on whether Bannon should be allowed on the NSC. Despite the efforts made by the executive order to position Bannon as not technically being on the NSC because he’s now the centerpiece of the NSC, Democrats in Congress have nonetheless moved forward with an attempt at 
legally blocking Bannon
, suggesting Trump may now be trying to lay the groundwork for walking back the appointment rather than fighting the battle.




This leak also comes just one day after Steve Bannon showed up on the cover of Time Magazine, and then Saturday Night Live declared that Bannon was the real president. So it’s equally possible that Trump 
leaked his anger
 to the Times simply as a way of 
punishing Bannon
. Then again, as 
we’ve already seen
, Trump does not read the executive orders he’s signing.




Impeach Trump Now
 • 
Contribute to Palmer Report
If you appreciate the investigative reporting of Palmer Report, consider making a 
contribution
: 










Bill Palmer




Bill Palmer is the founder and editor in chief of the political news outlet Palmer Report




http://www.dailynewsbin.com










Related










Keep up to date with the latest Palmer Report articles via email.






Get the latest content first.




































We respect your privacy.












 






Posted in 
Opinion
, 
Politics
 and tagged 
Council
, 
Donald Trump
, 
executive order
, 
National Security
, 
politics
, 
Steve Bannon
 
← Mike Pence was at the Super Bowl, and the NFL humiliated him by trotting out Hamilton cast
Uber changes sides and joins the Resistance by taking legal action against Donald Trump →






Leave a Comment 
Cancel Reply
 


Comment


Name (required)




Email (will not be published) (required)




Website




 




 
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
 
Notify me of new posts by email.
 
























Free Email Updates


















Get the latest content first.




































We respect your privacy.












Top Articles
 



						Meet the seven Russian operatives who have dropped dead during Donald Trump-Russia scandal					







						Two Russian officials have admitted to colluding with Donald Trump campaign					







						Vladimir Putin's big mistake, and why his Donald Trump - Russia conspiracy is unraveling					







						Russian mafia figure Felix Sater now appears to be blackmailing Donald Trump on Putin's behalf					







						Donald Trump's strategy for blocking the 25th Amendment has been in plain sight all along					







						Toxicology tests for seventh Russian operative who's died amid Donald Trump-Russia scandal					







						Kremlin paid $40,000 to Michael Flynn just before he joined Donald Trump campaign					







						Donald Trump's Russian handler Felix Sater was an FBI informant					







						Prosecutor: Ukrainian conspirator Andriy Artemenko facing treason charges in Trump-Russia scandal					




 


















© 2017 Palmer Report


 | 


Powered by 
Beaver Builder




 




 






























































