



































 





























    Search 




















Top Headlines































    Search 




















Top Headlines
































+



























              Trump's First 100 Days
            







              Video
            







              Politics
            







              Sports
            







              Local
            







              Entertainment
            







              Science & Technology
            







              Onion Store
            











        Our Company
      







               About Us
          







               Contact
          







            Advertise
          







               Careers
          







            The Onion Store
          







               Privacy Policy
          











      Special Coverage
    






































































Onion, Inc. Sites







            The Onion
          







            The A.V. Club
          







            ClickHole
          







            Onion Studios
          































































































    The Onion is not intended for readers under 18 years of age. © Copyright 2017 Onion Inc. All rights reserved.
  



















  Politics









+







































            'I Would Be Absolutely Perfect For This,' Report 1,400 People Looking At Same Job Posting

  









        
          
            Upon coming across the same job posting Monday for a full-time position at a local startup company, an estimated 1,400 people reportedly described the opening as “a perfect fit” for their qualifications, saying it was exactly the opportunity t...
          
        
      













































            FBI Panicking After Learning Encrypted National Security Communications May Have Been Intercepted By Trump Administration

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Fearing the information had already fallen into the wrong hands, the FBI was panicking Tuesday after learning encrypted national security communications may have been intercepted by the Trump administration.
          
        
      













































            Onion Fact Checks: President Trump’s Press Conference

  



















































            Trump Staffer Grateful To Work With So Many People He Could Turn Over To FBI In Exchange For Immunity

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Fully mindful of the privilege he enjoyed, Trump administration staffer Greg Potreski told reporters Friday that he was grateful to be working with so many individuals he could turn over to the FBI in exchange for immunity.
          
        
      













































            Color Drains From Michael Flynn’s Face After Single Red Dahlia Drops Out Of Envelope From Russian Intelligence

          

















































            Steve Bannon’s Inflamed Liver Pulsing Visibly Through Shirt During Strategy Meeting

          

















































            Mar-A-Lago Member Complains About Loud, Obnoxious Cabinet Meeting At Next Table

          







        
          
            PALM BEACH, FL—Saying that the noisy group was really getting on his nerves, Mar-a-Lago country club member Walter Forsyth reportedly complained to the management Thursday about the obnoxious U.S. cabinet meeting seated at the next table.
          
        
      













































            What You Need To Know About The Trump Administration’s Ties To Russia

          







        
          
            New revelations from the U.S. intelligence community about potentially illegal communications between members of the Trump administration and Russian officials, which led to Michael Flynn resigning as national security advisor Monday, have increased calls for a wider investigation of Trump’s murky ties to Russia. Here’s what you need to know.
          
        
      













































            Paul Ryan Grudgingly Impressed By Angry Protester Who’s Matched His Running Pace For 9 Miles

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Marveling at the outraged, shouting woman’s conditioning, House Speaker Paul Ryan told reporters Tuesday he could not help but be impressed by the infuriated protester who had been keeping up with his running pace for the last nine miles.
          
        
      













































            5 Things To Know About Stephen Miller

  



















































            Neil Gorsuch Vows To Interpret Constitution Using Scalia’s Original Intent

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Pledging to defend the highest laws of the United States as objectively and consistently as possible, Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch vowed Monday that if confirmed, he would interpret the Constitution in accordance with former Associate Justice Antonin Scalia’s original intent.
          
        
      













































            Officials Struggling To Condense Trump’s Intelligence Briefing Down To One Word

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Telling reporters they were working hard to provide important national security updates to the new commander-in-chief in a manner he found most useful and actionable, intelligence officials confirmed Monday they have been struggling to condense President Donald Trump’s briefings down to a single word.
          
        
      













































            Steve Bannon Mixes Discarded Climate Change Report With Saliva To Build Final Wall Of Nest

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Revealing that the president’s chief strategist had been observed scuttling around the residence to gather materials, White House aide Alison Fordham confirmed Friday that Steve Bannon was mixing a discarded climate change report with his saliva to construct the final wall of his nest.
          
        
      













































            5 Things To Know About Elizabeth Warren

  



















































            Journalist Wondering Where To Mention Getting Yelled At By U.S. President In Article

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Saying that nothing in his journalism career could possibly have prepared him for this, Politico chief White House correspondent Mike Allen wondered Thursday where to mention getting yelled at by the president of the United States in an article he was writing.
          
        
      













































            Secret Service Adds Emotional Protection Division To Safeguard Trump’s Psyche

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—In an effort to respond to the vast and ever-changing dangers faced by the nation’s commander-in-chief, Secret Service administrators announced Wednesday the creation of an Emotional Protection Division to safeguard President Donald Trump’s psyche.
          
        
      













































            How DeVos Plans To Change The Department Of Education

          







        
          
            Betsy DeVos was confirmed by a 51-50 Senate vote Tuesday to run the Department of Education. Here’s how President Trump’s controversial cabinet pick plans to change the nation’s education policy:
          
        
      













































            5 Things To Know About Richard Spencer

  



















































            Conscience Quietly Let Go As Paul Ryan Policy Advisor

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Acknowledging the longtime aide’s many years of service, House Speaker Paul Ryan announced Tuesday that his conscience would no longer serve as a key policy advisor.
          
        
      













































            Mike Pence Disappointed God Has Never Asked Him To Kill One Of Own Children

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Saying he would surely rise to the occasion if tasked by the Almighty with the ultimate test of faith, Vice President Mike Pence said Monday that he was disappointed that God has never called upon him to kill one of his own children.
          
        
      













































            What’s Next For Hillary Clinton?

          







        
          
            Despite her presidential loss, Hillary Clinton is making moves to secure her legacy and stay a relevant voice in American politics. Here are some of her future plans:
          
        
      













































            D.C. Authorities Struggling To Keep Squatters Out Of Empty State Department

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Saying they have had to deal with hundreds of new cases over the last few weeks, local D.C. authorities reported Friday that they are struggling to keep squatters out of empty State Department offices.
          
        
      













































            Fearful Americans Stockpiling Facts Before Federal Government Comes To Take Them Away

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Alarmed at the prospect of unconstitutional overreach by the Trump administration, millions of fearful Americans have already begun stockpiling facts before the federal government comes to take them away, sources confirmed Friday.
          
        
      













































            Eric Trump Scolds Father That He Mustn’t Inquire About The Businesses, For He’s Sworn Not To Tell

          





            ‘You Shan’t Ask Me About Our Shops, Papa, For I Am Forbidden To Say!’ Chides President’s Son
          





        
          
            WASHINGTON—Saying he had solemnly sworn to never breathe a word concerning such affairs, Eric Trump scolded his father Friday that he mustn’t inquire about the businesses.
          
        
      













































            5 Things To Know About Milo Yiannopoulos

  



















































            How Executive Orders Work

  



















































            Nation’s Stomach Ulcers Predict Trump Administration Will Provide Opportunities For Unlimited Growth In 2017

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Hoping to ride a wave of momentum after a historically strong year, the nation’s stomach ulcers predicted Thursday that the Trump administration will provide opportunities for unlimited growth in 2017.
          
        
      













































            5 Things To Know About Neil Gorsuch

  



















































            Trump Hails Gorsuch As Fierce Protector Of Future Amendment Allowing President To Temporarily Suspend Right To Assemble

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Praising the federal appellate judge’s commitment to upholding the Constitution, President Trump hailed his Supreme Court justice nominee Neil Gorsuch as a fierce protector of the future amendment that will allow the president to temporarily suspend the right to assemble.
          
        
      













































            How The Border Wall Will Be Built

  


















End Of Section




More News









































      NEWS IN PHOTOS
    





        2.6.17
      



        February 6, 2017
      








Vol 53


Issue 05










Steve Bannon Slurps Still-Twitching Tail Into Mouth Before Giving Opinion On Syria



































































Close





































          More Videos
        




WATCH VIDEO FROM THE ONION












 






 














 


 














 


 














 


 














 


 














 


 














 


 














 


 














 


 














 


 














 


 




















Trending Now










News








8.4 Million New Yorkers Suddenly Realize New York City A Horrible Place To Live














News in Brief








Police Finally Make Breakthrough In Decades-Old Marijuana Possession Cold Case














American Voices








Legalizing Gay Marriage Lowers Teen Suicide








 



















































































      Quick Jump To Series Page
    



      Onion Film Standard
    



      ONN Exclusive
    



      Onion Explains
    



      ONN Cast
    







      Browse All 









































          Up Next
        





















































































































































          More from this section
        









































            Neil Gorsuch Vows To Interpret Constitution Using Scalia’s Original Intent

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Pledging to defend the highest laws of the United States as objectively and consistently as possible, Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch vowed Monday that if confirmed, he would interpret the Constitution in accordance with former Associate Justice Antonin Scalia’s original intent.
          
        
      









































            Officials Struggling To Condense Trump’s Intelligence Briefing Down To One Word

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Telling reporters they were working hard to provide important national security updates to the new commander-in-chief in a manner he found most useful and actionable, intelligence officials confirmed Monday they have been struggling to condense President Donald Trump’s briefings down to a single word.
          
        
      









































            Steve Bannon Mixes Discarded Climate Change Report With Saliva To Build Final Wall Of Nest

          







        
          
            WASHINGTON—Revealing that the president’s chief strategist had been observed scuttling around the residence to gather materials, White House aide Alison Fordham confirmed Friday that Steve Bannon was mixing a discarded climate change report with his saliva to construct the final wall of his nest.
          
        
      


















Trending Now









































            8.4 Million New Yorkers Suddenly Realize New York City A Horrible Place To Live

          





            'We're Getting The Hell Out Of This Sewer,' Entire Populace Reports
          





        
          
            NEW YORK—At 4:32 p.m. Tuesday, every single resident of New York City decided to evacuate the famed metropolis, having simultaneously realized it was nothing more than a massive, trash-ridden hellhole that slowly sucks the life out of every one of its inhabitants.
          
        
      









































            Police Finally Make Breakthrough In Decades-Old Marijuana Possession Cold Case

          







        
          
            AMARILLO, TX—Stating that the pivotal new evidence has helped them get significantly closer to zeroing in on a suspect, the Amarillo Police Department announced Wednesday that they have finally made a breakthrough in a decades-old marijuana possession cold case.
          
        
      









































            Legalizing Gay Marriage Lowers Teen Suicide

          

















































            30-Million-Year-Old Species Worried It Doesn’t Have Another Evolution In It

          







        
          
            WASATCH RANGE, UT—Having spent thousands of millennia adapting to changes in habitat and climate, the American pika told reporters Wednesday that the 30-million-year-old species is worried it doesn’t have another evolution in it.
          
        
      




















Sign up For The Onion's Newsletter


Give your spam filter something to do.


















Daily Headlines
















Weekly Update






































Close














Sign up For The Onion's Newsletter


Give your spam filter something to do.


















Daily Headlines
















Weekly Update






































Close














The Onion is not intended for readers under 18 years of age.

            © Copyright 2017 Onion Inc. All rights reserved








































