









































































EDITION


US








عربي (Arabi)


Australia


Brasil


Canada


Deutschland


España


France


Ελλάδα (Greece)


India






Italia


日本 (Japan)


한국 (Korea)


Maghreb


México


Québec (En Francais)


South Africa


United Kingdom


United States












































NEWS







Highline


Science


Education


Weird News


Business






TestKitchen


Tech


College


Media












POLITICS







Pollster


Heroin Epidemic


Donald Trump


Racial Inequality


US Senate


Election Results






HuffPost Hill


Police Brutality


Hate Crimes


Supreme Court


Congress


So That Happened












ENTERTAINMENT







Entertainment


Comedy


Celebrity


TV






Arts + Culture


Backspace


Movies












LIFESTYLE







Healthy Living


Travel


Style


Taste






Home


Relationships


Sleep












IMPACT







Reclaim


Project Zero






HuffPost RYOT


Good News












VOICES







Black Voices


Latino Voices


Women






Fifty


Queer Voices


Parents












VIDEO




ALL SECTIONS







Arts + Culture


Black Voices


Books


Business


Candidate Confessional


Celebrity


College


Comedy


Crime


Divorce


Dolce Vita


Eat the Press






Education


Election Results


Entertainment


Fifty


Good News


Green


Healthy Living


Highline


Home


Horoscopes


HuffPost Data


HuffPost Hill






Impact


Latino Voices


Media


Newsletters


Outspeak


Parents


Politics


Pollster


Queer Voices


Religion


Science


Small Business






So That Happened


Sports


Style


Taste


Tech


Teen


TestKitchen


Travel


TV


Weddings


Weird News


Women






FEATURED


OWN


Paving the Way


The Power Of Humanity






Retire Well


Sleep + Wellness


What's Working: Purpose + Profit


WorldPost






















































Ellen Freudenheim, Contributor


Freelance writer, activist












'Bipartisan Beer' And The Telling Tale Of Anheuser-Busch’s Super Bowl Ad


Telling a company’s heroic “heritage story” has become a popular marketing tool.






02/05/2017 04:15 pm ET

|



Updated

Feb 10, 2017




















Courtesy of Anheuser-Busch 




Scene from “Born the Hard Way” Super Bowl ad, 2017







































































The brouhaha over Anheuser-Busch’s spectacular  Super Bowl ad is just another example of how toxic the political environment has become in the wake of President Trump’s recent and apparently illegal travel ban on immigrants from certain (read “seven, majority Muslim”) nations. 


It would be funny if it weren’t so scary-sad that a American brand found it important to say something silly like, “beer is bipartisan.” 


As everyone already knows, Anheuser-Busch is one of the nation’s great brewing companies, indeed the largest in the world.  It is over 140 years old. It was cofounded by a young German immigrant Adolphus Busch, who endured and overcame challenges as he pursued  his goal: to build a brewing business. They’ve been a corporate sponsor of the Super Bowl for eons. 


Telling the brewer’s corporate “heritage story,” this year’s blockbuster Super Bowl ad, produced by the ad agency Anomaly, sets forth a historical romantic tale of a young immigrant who came to America with a dream. Titled “
Born the Hard Way,”
 the ad  plays  like a dreamy movie trailer set in the 1800s. You ‘re almost ready to reach for the popcorn. 


But wait! The 
Washington Post reports
 that a boycott-the-beer movement has been floated on social media, fueled by Trump supporters who see a sinister plot and subliminal politics in this handsomely produced and as-American-as-apple-pie heritage story ad. 







Courtesy of Anheuser-Busch 




Scene from “Born the Hard Way” Super Bowl ad, 2017





America is Built on the Energy of Immigrants —from Everywhere


Thank goodness for immigrant energy and ambition. Without it America wouldn’t be America. For instance, we wouldn’t have Google (founded by a Russian immigrant); Panda Express (founded by Vietnamese immigrants); Kraft Food (founded by a Canadian); ZUMBA fitness (founded by a Colombian immigrant); Capital One (founded by a British immigrant); EBay (founded by a French immigrant); Intel (founded by a Hungarian immigrant); Kohl’s (founded by a Polish immigrant); Yahoo (founded by a Taiwanese immigrant), AT&T (founded by a Scottish immigrant); and Chobani (founded by a Turkish immigrant). These and more are celebrated by a US Chamber of Commerce site titled 
Free Enterprise
,  in an infographic about immigrant entrepreneurs.


Other American companies founded by immigrants include Ford, McDonald’s, Home Depot, Disney, Hertz, Estee Lauder, and many more household brand names.


Some 45% of the nation’s technology companies and half of the medical technology companies on the Fortune 500 list were launched by immigrants or the children of immigrants.


A story in the 
Atlantic 
reports that two out of every five Fortune 500 companies were founded immigrants or second-generation immigrants, defined as the children of immigrants.


And who’s really surprised? Since its founding, this country has been built by racially, ethnically, religiously, and linguistically diverse immigrants, from all over the world.







Courtesy of  Anheuser-Busch 




Scene from “Born the Hard Way” Super Bowl ad, 2017





American Immigrant Heritage Stories


So what’s the story behind this ad? Introducing consumers to the personal, human saga behind what today seems like a huge corporate producer is one way to compete in a beer market where small batch craft breweries have made a dent.


Telling a company’s heroic “heritage story” has become a popular marketing tool, designed to influence and impress both internal and external audiences, investors, and customers. It’s a truism of marketing that authenticity counts. What could be more passionate and authentic than a story that begins, “once upon a time, a young immigrant had a dream…”. Powerful back stories have been adapted for corporate marketing for decades now; It’s true of 
Proctor and Gamble
, and of the mega-brewer, too.


Still, the kerfuffle caused by the coincidental timing of Anheuser-Busch’s ad release (coming one week after a 
federal travel ban
 was announced via Presidential executive order, and then rescinded by the courts) was sufficient to cause the company to release a defensive statement that they were about selling their beer and their brand, and were not making a comment on religiously discriminatory bullying or politics. “Budweiser’s Super Bowl commercial highlights the ambition of our founder and his unrelenting pursuit of the American dream. This is a story about our heritage and the uncompromising commitment that goes into brewing our beer. It’s an idea we’ve been developing along with our creative agency for nearly a year. We believe beer is bipartisan and this commercial is not political commentary.”


And, the public can expect more such heritage stories, impressing consumers with images of American can-do and perseverance (though it’s unclear if these stories will continue to be linked to the hot button issue of immigration). In a press release the company said, “Throughout 2017, Budweiser will celebrate those who live life on their own terms and never back down.”


Given the politicization even of Super Bowl ads, that last bit is a phrase worth remembering, in the current climate: never back down.












ALSO ON HUFFPOST








 


















MORE:


Purpose + Profit
 
Muslim Ban
 
Beer
 
Super Bowl Advertising
 
Budweiser






























CONVERSATIONS






































Close


















SUBSCRIBE TO & FOLLOW THE MORNING EMAIL








The Morning Email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun.


Learn more








Newsletter


























































96.1 K










470 K










Podcast










Add us on Snapchat


































'Bipartisan Beer' And The Telling Tale Of Anheuser-Busch’s Super Bowl Ad












































































NEW! HIGHLIGHT AND SHARE


Highlight text to share via Facebook and Twitter






































Advertise






RSS






Careers






FAQ










User Agreement






Privacy






Comment Policy






About Us






About Our Ads






Contact Us






Archive






Copyright © 2017 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.    "The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.  All rights reserved.


Part of HuffPost Impact




















































































































