











































Home


Politics


Opinion


About Palmer Report


 








































Menu
















Home


Politics


Opinion


About Palmer Report


 














 













			Rosie O’Donnell is willing to play Steve Bannon on Saturday Night Live					


By 
Bill Palmer
 | 
February 6, 2017
 | 
0 
 








 


27763
SHARES
Share
Tweet
Subscribe
Google
Whatsapp
Pinterest
Linkedin
















Now that Melissa McCarthy has pulled off a Saturday Night Live portrayal of White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer with comedic perfection, and now that word has leaked out of Donald Trump souring on Spicer because he was played by a woman, the internet has spent the past day trying to convince Rosie O’Donnell to begin portraying Steve Bannon on SNL. And she now says she’s willing to do it.


The pieces, of course, line up perfectly. SNL has thus far been portraying Steve Bannon as a costumed grim reaper, a sight gag which has worked but won’t hold up comedically forever. That means the role is basically open for the right actor. And with the 
confirmation
 today that Trump truly does now Sean Spicer as being “weak” because he was portrayed by a woman, it just about mandates that Bannon also be played by a woman. On top of it, there’s no one Donald Trump hates more than Rosie O’Donnell, as he’s launched one asinine sexist attack on her after another during the course of his campaign.




It’s not that Rosie is campaigning for the role of Steve Bannon, but rather that the internet is begging her to do it. When one Twitter used asked her to take on the role, she 
responded
 with “I am here to serve – alec has trump – melissa has spice – I would need a few days to prepare – so if called – I will be ready.” When another user asked her to do it, she 
repeated
 that she’s “available – if called I will serve!!!”




We look forward to any opportunity for Rosie O’Donnell to get her well deserved revenge on Donald Trump. And if Bannon being played by a woman leads Trump to sour on Bannon in the manner which he’s 
reportedly soured
 on Spicer, even better. Bannon is a 
white supremacist
 who doesn’t belong in the White House. If Rosie and SNL can team up to somehow get him fired, fantastic.
If you appreciate the investigative reporting of Palmer Report, consider making a 
contribution
: 










Bill Palmer




Bill Palmer is the founder and editor in chief of the political news outlet Palmer Report




http://www.dailynewsbin.com










Related










Keep up to date with the latest Palmer Report articles via email.






Get the latest content first.




































We respect your privacy.












 






Posted in 
Opinion
, 
Politics
 and tagged 
Donald Trump
, 
politics
, 
Rosie O'Donnell
, 
Saturday Night Live
, 
Sean Spicer
, 
SNL
, 
Steve Bannon
 
← Donald Trump has soured on “weak” Sean Spicer because a woman played him on SNL
Trump administration posts list of terror attacks, misspells U.S. city, repeatedly misspells “attackers” →






Leave a Comment 
Cancel Reply
 


Comment


Name (required)




Email (will not be published) (required)




Website




 




 
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
 
Notify me of new posts by email.
 
























Free Email Updates


















Get the latest content first.




































We respect your privacy.












Top Articles
 



						Meet the seven Russian operatives who have dropped dead during Donald Trump-Russia scandal					







						Two Russian officials have admitted to colluding with Donald Trump campaign					







						Vladimir Putin's big mistake, and why his Donald Trump - Russia conspiracy is unraveling					







						Russian mafia figure Felix Sater now appears to be blackmailing Donald Trump on Putin's behalf					







						Donald Trump's strategy for blocking the 25th Amendment has been in plain sight all along					







						Toxicology tests for seventh Russian operative who's died amid Donald Trump-Russia scandal					







						Kremlin paid $40,000 to Michael Flynn just before he joined Donald Trump campaign					







						Donald Trump's Russian handler Felix Sater was an FBI informant					







						Prosecutor: Ukrainian conspirator Andriy Artemenko facing treason charges in Trump-Russia scandal					




 


















© 2017 Palmer Report


 | 


Powered by 
Beaver Builder




 




 






























































