


































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































				Have you seen BuzzFeed English?
				
					
Check it out








































news




















News






Videos






Quizzes






Tasty






DIY







              More 






BuzzFeed Community


 Make A Post!






SECTIONS






Animals






Audio






Big Stories






Books






Business






Buzz






Celebrity






Community






Entertainment






Food






Geeky






Health






LGBT






Life






Music






Parents






Podcasts






Politics






Puzzles






Reader






Rewind






Science






Sports






Style






Tech






Travel






Weddings






World












Advertise


Jobs


Mobile


Newsletters


Shop









		US Edition
		






US Edition


UK Edition


Australia


Brasil


Canada


Deutschland


España


Español


France


India


Japan


México












About


Press


RSS


Privacy


User Terms




Ad Choices


Help


Contact


© 2017 BuzzFeed, Inc




Made in NY
















Get Our News App






















































NEW POST






MY PROFILE
MY POSTS
0






MY DRAFTS
MY DRAFTS






MY DASHBOARD
DASHBOARD






SWITCH USER
FEEDS/USERS






SETTINGS






SIGN OUT














































NEW POST






MY PROFILE
MY POSTS
0






MY DRAFTS
MY DRAFTS






MY DASHBOARD
DASHBOARD






SWITCH USER
FEEDS/USERS






SETTINGS






SIGN OUT




























































Promoted


Sponsored












→ 
 


































Two Women Swapped Hair Routines For A Week And It…








































Medicinal Marijuana Will Be Available From…


























This Is How Families Are Reacting To The Supreme…














Can You Name The Country From The Countries It…








 
















 
















Your Post Has Been Launched!


Fabulous! Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook.




















Business




 Betsy DeVos Is Confirmed As Education Secretary, Thanks To An Unprecedented Tie-Breaking Vote



    				
    				
    				The Senate voted 50-50 on Trump’s controversial pick to head the Department of Education, forcing Vice President Mike Pence to cast a historic vote to break the tie.
    				
    				
    			




































Molly Hensley-Clancy


BuzzFeed News Reporter














































































View this image ›




Betsy DeVos testifies before the Senate Health, Education and Labor Committee. 
 
Yuri Gripas / Reuters




ID: 10482190




WASHINGTON — The Senate confirmed Betsy DeVos as education secretary by a razor-thin margin Tuesday, with Vice President Mike Pence casting an unprecedented vote to break a 50-50 tie on a Cabinet nomination. It is also the first time in history that an education secretary has ever been confirmed without bipartisan support.
No Democrats voted for DeVos’s nomination, and two Republicans crossed party lines to oppose her, saying they believed she was too inexperienced and narrowly focused on school choice issues like charter schools and vouchers to adequately support public schools.
But a frantic effort by Democrats — including a deluge of phone calls from constituents and 24 straight hours of anti-DeVos speeches on the Senate floor — failed to convince a third Republican to jump ship and kill the nomination. That left Pence with the deciding vote, the first time in congressional history that a vice president has broken a tie on a Cabinet nominee.
“On this vote, the yeas are 50, the nays are 50. The Senate being equally divided, the vice president votes in the affirmative and the nomination is confirmed,” Pence told the deadlocked chamber.






Video available at: 
https://video-cdn.buzzfeed.com/23263/mp4_1920X1080/1486489143
.




 
video-cdn.buzzfeed.com


ID: 10483065




Pence had told Fox News Sunday that it would be his “high honor to cast the deciding tie-breaking vote” on DeVos’s nomination.
Reacting on Twitter, DeVos said she was honored by her new role.








I appreciate the Senate's diligence & am honored to serve as @usedgov Secretary. Let's improve options & outcomes for all US students.

		— Betsy DeVos (@BetsyDeVos)
		








ID: 10483095




Early Tuesday morning, President Donald Trump, too, took to Twitter to defend DeVos, saying, “Senate Dems protest to keep the failed status quo. Betsy DeVos is a reformer, and she is going to be a great Education Sec. for our kids!”
No education secretary nominee in history has ever 
garnered the kind of opposition
 that DeVos, a billionaire education philanthropist and Republican megadonor, did. After a 
lackluster hearing
 in which she seemed to struggle with several basic concepts of federal education policy, she became a central target of Senate Democrats, who jumped on her relative inexperience in public schooling and complex financial ties.
Clips of DeVos’s stumbles in the hearing played on the news and late-night talk shows, and teachers unions pushed to mobilize their members, leading constituents to inundate Senate phone lines in opposition. For several days, calls from opponents on DeVos’s nomination and other Trump nominees made for the “busiest day in Capitol switchboard history” by “almost double,” 
according to
 Hawaii Sen. Brian Schatz, a Democrat.
DeVos was even included in a 
Saturday Night Live
 sketch this past weekend, telling a roomful of reporters, “I don’t know anything about school, but I do think there should be school. Probably Jesus school. And I think it should have walls and roof and gun for potential 
grizzly
.”
Republican Sens. Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski both voted no on Tuesday, with Murkowski citing the high volume of calls she received from “thousands of Alaskans” who opposed DeVos. Collins’ office, too, said she had been 
overwhelmed by calls
. Collins and Murkowski said that they were 
concerned
 about DeVos’s aggressive advocacy for charter schools and little experience in public education.
Before the vote Tuesday, Sen. Patty Murray, a Democrat who has led the opposition to DeVos, invoked the groundswell of opposition to the education nominee in a speech on the Senate floor, urging “just one more Republican” to come out against her.
“When we saw someone nominated to this position who knows so little about public education, who so clearly cares so little about public education, whose strongest connection to public schools is through her dedication to tearing them down, well that struck a real chord with a whole lot of people,” Murray said. “And they decided to make their voices heard.”
Sen. Lamar Alexander, who chairs the Senate’s education committee, spoke after Murray on Tuesday, urging his colleagues to support DeVos. The Republican said that she has the support of 22 serving governors and that Democrats should not be surprised that a Republican president chose a nominee who supports school choice and charter schools, which he called “the most effective public school reform in 30 years.”
Alexander added that his committee confirmed two education secretaries nominated by President Obama, even though Republicans disagreed with those choices on some major policy issues as well.
“You may disagree with the president, but the people elected him,” Alexander said. “I urge you to give the Republican president the opportunity to choose his own education secretary, just as we did.”






2.






There’s Never Been Such A Difficult Confirmation For An Education Secretary




buzzfeed.com










ID: 10482335








3.






Trump’s Education Secretary Nominee Struggles In Hearing




buzzfeed.com










ID: 10482341








4.






For A Glimpse At The Billionaire Class, Check Out Betsy DeVos’s Finances




buzzfeed.com










ID: 10482344






 
CORRECTION





			Although Sen. Susan Collins’ office received a 
high volume of calls
, she did not cite them as part of her reasoning for voting no on the DeVos nomination. An earlier version of this story said that she had referenced those calls in announcing her opposition.
			
















ID: 10493440










Check out more articles on BuzzFeed.com!
















Molly Hensley-Clancy is a business reporter for BuzzFeed News and is based in New York. She covers the intersection of business and education.	



			Contact Molly Hensley-Clancy at 
molly.hensley-clancy@buzzfeed.com
.
		





                Got a confidential tip?
              
Submit it here
.
            










































































































More 
▾














































 






Facebook Conversations
































 Next On News
›






This Is Already The Most Iconic Photo Of The Trump...
























 Next On News
›






Former Uber Employee Describes Workplace Sexism, Management...




















I know, right? Will your friends agree?


Share this Link














Betsy DeVos Is Confirmed As Education Secretary, Thanks To An Unprecedented Tie-Breaking Vote


https://www.buzzfeed.com/mollyhensleyclancy/bet...


The Senate voted 50-50 on Trump's controversial pick to head the Department of Education, for...
















Your link was successfully shared!
















































Promoted by




BuzzFeed Staff






Sponsored
























Tagged:
betsy devos
, 
brian schatz
, 
cabinet nominees
, 
democrats
, 
donald trump
, 
education secretary
, 
patty murray
, 
republicans
, 
senate
 






 






Facebook Conversations


















































































Promoted




























Promoted by




BuzzFeed Staff






Sponsored
































































In The News Today


The Army Corps of Engineers and North Dakota police have ordered protesters to leave the Dakota Access Pipeline site by this afternoon or face arrest.
Immigrants are worried two government memos are laying the groundwork for the deportation force Trump promised on the campaign trail.
A US federal judge ruled that Texas can't cut Planned Parenthood out of its Medicaid program.
Yalla! You can now download a new Arab emoji keyboard that includes a belly dancer, Oman Chips, and more 👏


Download the BuzzFeed News app




















This Is How The Secret Service Reacted To Threats Against Hillary Clinton



	        by 
Jason Leopold

















      Connect With
      
      





      

      Business

    











    Like Us On Facebook
  









    Follow Us On Twitter
  









    Follow Us On Apple News
  

















            
            More News
            
        






















A Shocking Claim About Trump’s Inaugural Speech Turns Out To Be Baloney.




















North Korea Can’t Launch A Nuclear Missile At The US Yet, But This Is How It’s Going To Try




















A Hollywood Film Is Using Fake News To Get Publicity




















This Mar-A-Lago Member Had A Great Time Photographing Trump Handling A National Security Crisis




















Officials Were Warned Of Weakness At The US’s Tallest Dam A Decade Ago




















Climate Scientists Are Worried Their Link To Weather Satellites May Be Choked Off




















Mexico’s President Canceled His Meeting With Trump Rather Than Pay For The Wall




















Playboy Is Bringing Back Nude Photos




















More Than 680 Arrested In Raids Targeting Undocumented Immigrants




















Trump And Trudeau Play Nice Despite Their Massive Differences










More News

















            
            Now Buzzing
            
        














































Here’s Why People In Their Twenties And Thirties Are Living With Mum And Dad








Promoted


Sponsored








































Build A Pizza And We’ll Tell You Which Aussie Uni You Should Go To




















Stop What You’re Doing And Look At These Baby Polar Bear Twins
































Promoted


Sponsored
































This Is How Families Are Reacting To The Supreme Court’s Ruling On Spousal Visas


















More Buzz








































advertise






jobs






mobile






newsletter






Shop











		US Edition
		






US Edition


UK Edition


Australia


Brasil


Canada


Deutschland


España


Español


France


India


Japan


México














about






press






RSS






privacy






user terms






ad Choices






Help






Contact








 © 2017  BuzzFeed, Inc 










Crop Image
 
×




























Upload an Image


Crop Image


Are These Thumbnails Okay?


×










Choose a new image


Save


Save Thumbnails


Preview Thumbnails









			I know, right? Will your friends agree?
		




Close
















Cancel


















#{img_n_width}x#{img_n_height}
















Email this to a friend
























Hey, I saw this on BuzzFeed and thought of you.






Please enter the CAT-CHA




Catcha question...




















 




Please select the newsletters you'd like to receive.


Your email has been sent!


Thanks for sharing! You should sign up for our News newsletter!
















7x per week














5x per week
















No thanks












Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later.






Great! You'll get your first email soon.








Share This Link




















Report an Issue


Drag to highlight
 one or more parts of the screen.






Cancel






Next












What should we know about this issue?








Back






Next










Thanks!


We got your feedback, and we'll follow up with you at
          




Done
          






Sadly, an error occured while sending your feedback. Please contact bugs@buzzfeed.com
                                 to let us know.


OK
          




















