





































































Jump to main navigation
Jump to main content










News Search


News
















by 
eluta.ca






Search Jobs at eluta.ca


Jobs
























Login






Register












18
 


Toronto












Subscribe


Help








AdChoices












 Home











 News













 Opinion









 Business









 Investing









 Sports









 Life









 Arts









 Tech









 Drive









 Real Estate
















National








Politics








British Columbia








Alberta








Toronto








World










Video















U.S. Politics












Home
»


News
»


World
»


U.S. Politics
































Andrew Puzder, chief executive officer of CKE Restaurants Inc, is one of several Trump nominees who face strong opposition from Senate Democrats and progressive groups. (MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS)
















Andrew Puzder, chief executive officer of CKE Restaurants Inc, is one of several Trump nominees who face strong opposition from Senate Democrats and progressive groups.
(MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS)






u.s. politics



Trump labour pick Puzder admits to employing illegal immigrant

Add to ...





Sarah N. Lynch








WASHINGTON — Reuters




Published

Tuesday, Feb. 07, 2017 10:24AM EST




Last updated

Tuesday, Feb. 07, 2017 12:58PM EST


























 Comments








Share via email










Share on facebook










Share on twitter










Share on LinkedIn














 Print


























U.S. President Donald Trump’s choice to lead the Labor Department admitted to employing an undocumented immigrant as a house cleaner, the kind of revelation that derailed Cabinet nominees in previous administrations.
Andrew Puzder, chief executive officer of CKE Restaurants Inc, is one of several Trump nominees who face strong opposition from Senate Democrats and progressive groups.




In a statement late on Monday, Puzder said he and his wife had employed a housekeeper for a few years without being aware that she was not legally permitted to work in the United States.
“When I learned of her status, we immediately ended her employment and offered her assistance in getting legal status,” he said in the statement. He said he paid back taxes for employing the maid to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and to California.
The statement was first reported by the Huffington Post.
Senator Lamar Alexander, chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, the panel that will vet Puzder’s nomination, said in a statement that Puzder had reported his mistake and voluntarily corrected it.
“I do not believe that this should disqualify him from being a cabinet secretary,” he added.
The disclosure came as Senate Democrats held an all-night session in a final attempt to block the nomination of Betsy DeVos, the billionaire school-choice champion whom Trump nominated to be education secretary.
Puzder’s tentative date for a confirmation hearing has been repeatedly postponed, as the committee awaited completion of an ethics review by the Office of Government Ethics.
As of Tuesday, the committee had still not received any of the necessary paperwork on Puzder’s nomination, though the Federal Bureau of Investigation background check had been completed, according to a committee aide.
Senator Patty Murray, the ranking Democrat on the panel, said on Tuesday she was troubled by the delay and by stories from workers for CKE’s primarily franchised fast-food restaurants who have come forward in recent weeks to complain about wage theft and other labor conditions.
“If Mr. Puzder ever does come before our committee, he’s going to have a lot of explaining to do,” she said.
Puzder’s nomination has sparked protests around the country by some CKE fast-food workers and the union-backed “Fight for $15” movement to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
Puzder has criticized an overtime rule championed by the Obama administration and opposes raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
Additionally, some of CKE’s racy advertisements featuring women in bikinis have caused Democrats to ask questions about how Puzder will address sexual harassment in the workplace.
It is unclear whether the issues with hiring an undocumented worker could impede Puzder’s confirmation.
Wilbur Ross, Trump’s pick for commerce secretary, admitted last month that he recently fired a household employee who could not provide proof of legal status.
A Senate panel later approved his nomination. He was awaiting confirmation by the full Senate.
However, previous presidential appointees have run into problems over immigrant labor - including two former nominees under Republican President George W. Bush and a previous nominee under Democratic President Bill Clinton.
All three of those nominees withdrew their names for consideration after the news came to light.






Report Typo/Error










Also on The Globe and Mail





Conway cites 'Bowling Green massacre' that never happened 
(Reuters)









 







More Related to this Story










u.s. politics

Two Republicans won’t vote for Trump education pick Betsy DeVos












Trump accuses media of choosing not to report on extremist attacks












Canadian universities aim to help students, faculty stranded by Trump order















Topics






United States of America






















 Comments








Share via email










Share on facebook










Share on twitter










Share on LinkedIn














 Print


















Next story
|
 Learn More



Discover content from The Globe and Mail that you might otherwise not have come across. Here we’ll provide you with fresh suggestions where we will continue to make even better ones as we get to know you better.


You can let us know if a suggestion is not to your liking by hitting the ‘
’ close button to the right of the headline.















{{article_sprite}}



{{title}}


{{published_at}}






















































Trending
















{{title}}


























Most popular videos »
























 Report on Business





How Tim Hortons became part of a fast-food empire which is now adding Popeyes to its menu

















 News





British Muslim teacher forced off U.S.-bound plane

















 News





France’s Le Pen refuses to wear headscarf for meeting with Lebanon’s grand mufti

















 Globe Drive





The four must-see cars at the Toronto auto show





















 Arts





Former teen idol David Cassidy reveals he has dementia

















 News





Floods ravage San Jose area after heavy rains

















 Life





Chef Basics: These easy crab cakes make for a tasty appetizer or quick lunch

















 News





Canada to take in 1,200 mostly Yazidi refugees





















 Video





A400M aircraft costs hit Airbus profits

















 Report on Business






Inside the Market: Now that you've contributed, how do you build an RRSP investment plan?


















 News





NYPD chases runaway cow through NYC streets

















 Technology





App aims to help planes, drones avoid collisions















◀


●


●


●


▶


















Highlights


















Report on Business





Marijuana industry searches for large spaces to grow crops























Report on Business





‘Cautious optimism’ for Calgary’s beleaguered commercial real estate



















More from The Globe and Mail


















 Report on Business





Drabinsky dedicated to ‘making things right,’ wants to run theatre company























 Life





Sémillon: Classic white Bordeaux grape found its promised land in Australia









































Most popular


















Inside the brutal transformation of Tim Hortons

















Feb. 22: Your daily horoscope



















Business Briefing: Market alarms: ‘Everybody knows there has to be a big shakeout’

















Ottawa approves sale of B.C. retirement-home chain to Chinese group with murky ownership
















Many Canadians in the dark on minimum debt payments































X










 
 


 
 


 


 connect with us 


 
 


 
 


 
 










Products










The Globe and Mail Newspaper


Newspaper delivered to your doorstep.

Subscribe to the newspaper














Globe Unlimited


Digital all access pass across devices.

Subscribe to Globe Unlimited














Globe2Go


The digital replica of our newspaper.

Subscribe to Globe2Go














Globe Email Newsletters


Get top Globe stories sent to your inbox.

Subscribe to email newsletters














Globe eBooks


A collection of articles by the Globe.

View the library














Advertise with us






GlobeLink.ca




Your number one partner for reaching Canada's Influential Achievers.







Or go directly to:


Newspaper


Magazine


Digital


Globe Alliance: extend your reach


Globe Edge: custom content


Classifieds




The Globe at your Workplace




Globe Corporate Sales


Globe Unlimited digital edition and Globe2Go e-paper group discounts available.

Learn more





Corporate financial data and content licensing for your organization.

Learn more








Or go directly to:


Report On Business Top 1000


DataStore essential business intelligence








Our Company




About us


Work at The Globe


Staff


The Globe and Mail Centre




Secure Services




Secure Drop


Staff PGP Directory




Customer Service




Contact Us


Customer Preference Center


FAQs


Customer Care website


Digital subscription services


Print subscription services


Change your delivery address


Vacation Stops








Mobile Apps




News










NEWS APP






Available for download on the following devices


iPhone


iPad


Android


Blackberry








Other Sections




Appointments


Art Store


Births & Announcements


Corrections


Classifieds


Classroom Edition


Deaths


Newspaper Ads


Real Estate


Special Reports


Site Map










Terms & Conditions


Privacy Policy


Disclaimer


Accessibility Policy


Community Guidelines


Globe sustainability


Editorial Code of Conduct








Copyright 2017 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.






351 King Street East
,

Suite 1600
, 

Toronto
, 

ON
 

Canada
 

M5A 0N1


Phillip Crawley, Publisher







































Add to Watchlist










Add to Watchlist


































We've run into a glitch. Please try again later.














We've run into a glitch. Please try again later.


































































