Follow
Sign in / Sign up
Home
Climate
Politics
Russia
Immigration
Features
Video
Resist
Zack Ford
Blocked
Unblock
Follow
Following
LGBT Editor at ThinkProgress.org. Gay, Atheist, Pianist, Unapologetic “Social Justice Warrior.” Contact me: zford@thinkprogress.org.
Feb 6
Kellyanne Conway’s explanation for the ‘Bowling Green massacre’ was also a lie
She didn’t misspeak; she had used the same line in another interview days prior.
CREDIT: AP Photo/Andrew Harnik
If Kellyanne Conway had any credibility left, it may have just evaporated.
After 
she invented
 the “Bowling Green Massacre” in an interview with MSNBC’s Chris Matthews last week, she argued that she “misspoke one word.” There were, in fact, two Iraqi refugees who lived in Bowling Green, Kentucky who tried to send weapons to Iraq, but they never attacked anyone on U.S. soil. “I should have said ‘plot’ or I should have just called them terrorists,” 
she explained
 to Fox News’ Howard Kurtz.
But Conway did not misspeak. In fact, Cosmopolitan.com 
revealed Monday
 that she used the exact same talking point in an interview given days previously. The magazine had not originally printed her quote referencing the “Bowling Green massacre,” but has shared it in the wake of her using it on MSNBC.
Here’s how Conway defended her argument that President Obama called for a “ban on Iraqi refugees” — which 
he didn’t actually do
:
He did, it’s a fact. Why did he do that? He did that for exactly the same reasons. He did that because two Iraqi nationals came to this country, joined ISIS, traveled back to the Middle East to get trained and refine their terrorism skills and come back here and were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green massacre of taking innocent soldiers’ lives away.
This version of the story adds more context to the fake story, with Conway suggesting that soldiers actually died at the “Bowling Green massacre.” Conway also suggested that they returned to the Middle East for training, but there is no evidence that they ever did.
Pressed for follow-up comment by Cosmopolitan, Conway again insisted that she misspoke. “It was a plot to massacre and they were Bowling Green terrorists. That’s what I should have said. I clarified.” She could not support her claim that they had traveled back to be trained, but stood by it.
But the fact that she invented the same story on two different occasions makes it doubtful that she misspoke. Indeed, even after being widely ridiculed for the MSNBC interview, she still tried to tie whatever attacks may have happened in Iraq back to Bowling Green:
This weekend, the White House offered all of the Sunday morning shows Vice President Mike Pence as a guest — except CNN’s 
State of the Union
. CNN was only offered Conway, and they declined to have her on. According to the New York Times’ Jim Rutenberg, the refusal was in part because of the snub, 
but also because
 of “serious questions about her credibility.” Conway has previously defended the administration’s distortions of reality as “
alternative facts
.”
Refusing to give her airtime could be an important step to countering the Trump administration’s massive disinformation campaign to justify its Muslim ban and other actions.
UPDATE:
 Despite the fact it was the White House 
that said Friday
 it had offered Conway to CNN for Sunday morning, she claimed late Monday morning that it was untrue CNN had rejected her. She instead insisted she backed out for family reasons.
CNN isn’t having it:
UPDATE: 
The same day Conway gave the Cosmopolitan interview, she also referred to the “Bowling Green attack” in an interview with TMZ. “There were two Iraqis who came here, got radicalized, joined ISIS, and then were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green attack on our brave soldiers,” she explained.
That makes 
three
 times that Conway “misspoke” to invent a tragedy that never happened.
Thanks to
 
Aaron Rupar
. 
Politics
Donald Trump
Kellyanne Conway
90
23
Blocked
Unblock
Follow
Following
Zack Ford
LGBT Editor at ThinkProgress.org. Gay, Atheist, Pianist, Unapologetic “Social Justice Warrior.” Contact me: 
zford@thinkprogress.org
.
Follow
ThinkProgress
Moving news forward.
Share
90
Never miss a story from
 ThinkProgress
, when you sign up for Medium. 
Learn more
Never miss a story from
 ThinkProgress
Get updates
Get updates
