 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign In
 
 
 
 
 
Username
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subscribe
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accessibility for screenreader
 
 
 
Home Page
 
 
 U.S. & World 
 
|
 
 Regional 
 
 
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
 
 
PowerPost
 
 
 
The Fix
 
 
 
White House
 
 
 
Courts and Law
 
 
 
Polling
 
 
 
Monkey Cage
 
 
 
Fact Checker
 
 
 
Post Politics Blog
 
 
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
 
 
The Post's View
 
 
 
Toles Cartoons
 
 
 
Telnaes Animations
 
 
 
Local Opinions
 
 
 
Global Opinions
 
 
 
Letters to the Editor
 
 
 
Act Four
 
 
 
All Opinions Are Local
 
 
 
Book Party
 
 
 
Compost
 
 
 
Erik Wemple
 
 
 
Five Myths
 
 
 
In Theory
 
 
 
The Plum Line
 
 
 
PostEverything
 
 
 
PostPartisan
 
 
 
Rampage
 
 
 
Right Turn
 
 
 
The Watch
 
 
 
Volokh Conspiracy
 
 
 
DemocracyPost
 
 
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
 
 
Redskins
 
 
 
NFL
 
 
 
MLB
 
 
 
NBA
 
 
 
NHL
 
 
 
AllMetSports
 
 
 
Soccer
 
 
 
Boxing/MMA
 
 
 
College Sports
 
 
 
College Football
 
 
 
College Basketball
 
 
 
D.C. Sports Bog
 
 
 
Early Lead
 
 
 
Fancy Stats
 
 
 
Golf
 
 
 
Tennis
 
 
 
Fantasy Sports
 
 
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
D.C.
 
 
 
Maryland
 
 
 
Virginia
 
 
 
Public Safety
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
Transportation
 
 
 
Weather
 
 
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
 
 
Acts of Faith
 
 
 
Health and Science
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
Investigations
 
 
 
Morning Mix
 
 
 
Post Nation
 
 
 
True Crime
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
 
 
Africa
 
 
 
The Americas
 
 
 
Asia and Pacific
 
 
 
Europe
 
 
 
Middle East
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
WorldViews
 
 
 
Checkpoint
 
 
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
 
 
Wonkblog
 
 
 
On Leadership
 
 
 
Personal Finance
 
 
 
Digger
 
 
 
Energy and Environment
 
 
 
Markets
 
 
 
On Small Business
 
 
 
World Business
 
 
 
Capital Business
 
 
 
 
 
Tech
 
 
 
 
 
Innovations
 
 
 
The Switch
 
 
 
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
 
 
 
Arts and Entertainment
 
 
 
Advice
 
 
 
Carolyn Hax
 
 
 
Food
 
 
 
Travel
 
 
 
Wellness
 
 
 
Magazine
 
 
 
Home and Garden
 
 
 
Inspired Life
 
 
 
Fashion
 
 
 
KidsPost
 
 
 
On Parenting
 
 
 
Reliable Source
 
 
 
The Intersect
 
 
 
Solo-ish
 
 
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
 
 
Books
 
 
 
Comics
 
 
 
Comic Riffs
 
 
 
Going Out Guide
 
 
 
Horoscopes
 
 
 
Movies
 
 
 
Museums
 
 
 
Music
 
 
 
Puzzles and Games
 
 
 
Theater and Dance
 
 
 
TV
 
 
 
Restaurants
 
 
 
Bars & Clubs
 
 
 
 
 
Crosswords
 
 
 
Video
 
 
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
Top News
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
Popular Video
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
Live
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
Technology
 
 
 
Style
 
 
 
 
 
Podcasts
 
 
 
Photography
 
 
 
 
 
In Sight
 
 
 
 
 
Washington Post Live
 
 
 
 
 
Events
 
 
 
 
 
Live Chats
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
Rentals
 
 
 
Where We Live
 
 
 
Recently Sold Homes
 
 
 
 
 
Cars
 
 
 
Jobs
 
 
 
Classifieds
 
 
 
Partners
 
 
 
 
 
Express
 
 
 
Parade
 
 
 
 
 
WP BrandStudio
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
 
 
 1996-2017 The Washington Post 
 
 
 
Terms of Service
 
 
 
Privacy Policy
 
 
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
 
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
 
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
 
 
Share on Twitter
 
 
Share on Google Plus
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Pinterest
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
 
Print Article
 
 
Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The inside track on Washington politics. 
 
 
 
 Be the first to know about new 
 
 stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published. 
 
 
 You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up 
 
 
*Invalid email address
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Desktop notifications are on   | 
Turn off
 
 
 
 
 
 
Get breaking news alerts from 
 The Washington Post 
 
 
Turn on desktop notifications?
 
 
Yes
 
Not now
 
 
 
 
It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
With historic tiebreaker from Pence, DeVos confirmed as education secretary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The inside track on Washington politics. 
 
 
 
 Be the first to know about new 
 
 stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published. 
 
 
 You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up 
 
 
*Invalid email address
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Reuters)
 
 
 
 
By 
Emma Brown
 
 
By 
Emma Brown
 
 
 
February 7
 
 
Follow @emmersbrown
 
 
 
 
The Senate confirmed Betsy DeVos as education secretary Tuesday by the narrowest of margins, with Vice President Pence casting a historic tiebreaking vote after senators deadlocked over her fitness for the job.
 
DeVos now takes the helm of the Education Department with questions about whether and how the polarizing fight over her confirmation will affect her power to advance the Trump administration’s agenda.
 
The entire Democratic caucus of 48 senators voted against DeVos, as did two Republicans, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine, who said they did not think that DeVos was qualified for the job. The remaining 50 Republicans voted for her, setting up a 50-50 tie that could be broken only with Pence’s vote.
 
It marked the first time that a vice president’s tiebreaker was needed to confirm a Cabinet secretary, according to Daniel Holt, an assistant historian in the Senate Historical Office. And it was the first time a vice president cast any tiebreaker in the Senate since Richard B. Cheney did so nine years ago.
 
DeVos, the fifth of President Trump’s Cabinet secretary choices to win confirmation, was sworn in Tuesday evening. The next vote is expected Wednesday on the nomination of Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) to be attorney general. He, too, will draw strong Democratic opposition. Other nominees are advancing to the floor. On Tuesday, a Senate committee unanimously approved David Shulkin’s nomination to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs.
 
 
 
 
 
 (Reuters)
 
 
 
The DeVos vote showed the limits of the Senate minority party’s power: Democrats can protest Trump’s nominees, but they can’t block them.
 
Republicans defended DeVos as an outsider who will challenge the status quo and as a conservative who will reduce the federal footprint in public schools, stripping away regulations they see as burdensome. The GOP is keen to change course after eight years in which the Obama Education Department exercised unusual influence over the nation’s schools.
 
“Betsy DeVos has committed: No more Washington mandates, no more national school board,” said Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), chairman of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, on Tuesday. “I urge a yes vote.”
 
Opponents said that DeVos doesn’t understand or believe in public schools and that she is not committed to enforcing civil rights laws. Those arguments, coupled with her rocky confirmation hearing performance in January, sparked a popular backlash and a level of partisan opposition unprecedented for an education secretary nominee.
 
“Is this a knowledgeable candidate who understands the federal law? Is this a candidate who comes to us without conflicts of interest? Is this a candidate who is willing to stand up and be the defender of all young children in the schools?” said Sen. Patty Murray (Wash.), the ranking Democrat on the committee. “To me . . . she is not.”
 
Trump weighed in via Twitter: “Senate Dems protest to keep the failed status quo. Betsy DeVos is a reformer, and she is going to be a great Education Sec. for our kids!” he wrote. DeVos retweeted the president’s message, and she plans to address the department staff on Wednesday afternoon.
 
Dozens of Democrats took to the Senate floor to speak out against DeVos for most of the day Monday and through the night into Tuesday, a 24-hour effort to persuade one more Republican to break party ranks and derail the confirmation. They failed, but their demonstration was welcomed by many of the parents, teachers and activists who had marched against DeVos and flooded Senate phone lines to oppose her nomination.
 
 
 
 
 
Cabinet nominees are getting more ‘no’ votes than ever 
View Graphic 
 
 
 
 
Cabinet nominees are getting more ‘no’ votes than ever
 
 
Since the Education Department was established in 1979, nominees to lead it have always been easily confirmed, often on voice votes or with unanimous support. The closest confirmation vote for an education secretary was 49 to 40 in 2016, in favor of John B. King Jr., who served in the last year of Barack Obama’s presidency.
 
 
[
The popular uprising that threatens the Betsy DeVos nomination
]
 
 
But DeVos is unlike previous nominees in that she has no personal or professional experience in public education or elected office.
 
Her free-market approach triggered opposition from teachers unions, which mobilized considerable forces against her, as well as from fellow education activists who said they worried that she was more committed to the ideology of “school choice” than to ensuring quality schools for vulnerable children.
 
DeVos has promised that she will not force vouchers onto states that don’t want them, but she has also said that it’s important for parents to have the opportunity to choose alternatives to traditional public schools — including vouchers, full-time virtual schools and public charter schools.
 
Trump pledged on the campaign trail to redirect $20 billion in federal funds to an effort to expand school voucher programs and charter schools. Such a sweeping proposal, which would require congressional approval, seemed a heavy lift even before the DeVos nomination. Now, with Capitol Hill so deeply divided over DeVos, it seems more remote.
 
But DeVos could seek to promote alternatives to public schools through other means, some of which would require only a simple majority in the Senate.
 
Lindsey Burke of the conservative Heritage Foundation said she expects the Trump administration to try to extend the tax benefits of 529 college savings plans to savings plans for private K-12 schools. She said she also anticipates an effort to expand choice for students attending schools run by the federal Bureau of Indian Education, and a push to extend the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program — the nation’s only federally funded voucher program — to all students in the District.
 
There are legal limits on the education secretary’s authority, but Burke said that DeVos can use her new position to advocate for education that is paid for by taxpayers, but not necessarily delivered in public schools.
 
“There is now someone at the federal level who recognizes that there’s a real redefinition of public education underway,” Burke said. “Public education does not have to mean government schooling.”
 
 
[
DeVos and her family are major donors to the senators who will vote on her confirmation
]
 
 
There has been speculation that the Trump administration could seek to promote vouchers through a competitive grant program similar to Obama’s Race to the Top, which helped persuade states to adopt Common Core academic standards and new teacher evaluations in return for a better shot at federal dollars.
 
Some Republicans hope that, with Trump and DeVos in office, they can win a fight they have lost repeatedly in recent years: allowing $15 billion in Title I funds, meant to help children from low-income families, to follow those students to the schools of their choice, including private schools. But such a change could slice deep holes in the budgets of some of the nation’s neediest schools, including in rural areas, and would be likely to encounter stiff resistance on Capitol Hill.
 
Civil rights advocates are concerned about priorities that DeVos could push with executive power, including rolling back or revising Obama administration guidance on how schools handle complaints of campus sexual assault and what accommodations they must make for transgender students. The agency also has wide latitude to decide how aggressively to investigate complaints about civil rights and special-education services, and it is responsible for deciding whether state plans for judging the success of schools measure up to the law.
 
DeVos was not widely known when Trump picked her in November. But that changed after she stumbled in her confirmation hearing over basic policy questions and left open the possibility that she would cut education funding, privatize public schools and scale back the department’s civil rights work.
 
Video clips from the hearing went viral, and DeVos became an instant meme even before Trump’s inauguration. Opposition to her nomination then snowballed.
 
Teachers union leaders, civil rights activists and Democrats have vowed to keep the spotlight on DeVos now that the 59-year-old from Ada, Mich., is the nation’s 11th education secretary.
 
“Across the country, parents, teachers, community leaders and civil rights advocates are rightly insisting that the federal role in education should be to strengthen public education, not abandon it, and to protect students’ civil rights including students with disabilities, low-income students, students of color, LGBT students, and immigrant students,” said King, Obama’s second education secretary. “The open question now is, will the future leadership of the department heed that message?”
 
 
Ed O’Keefe and Lisa Rein contributed to this report.
 
 
 
 
Read more:
 
 
 
11 revealing answers DeVos gave to Democratic senators’ questions
 
 
 
Democrats’ 24-hour talkathon against DeVos proves how little power they have
 
 
 
A sobering look at what Betsy DeVos did to education in Michigan
 
 
 
Pro-DeVos ads air as anti-DeVos protests are held
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
local
 
education
 
 
Orlando Shooting Updates
 
News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history.
 
post_newsletter348
 
follow-orlando
 
false
 
after3th
 
false
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please provide a valid email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up
 
 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
local
 
education
 
 
Dallas shooting updates
 
News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11.
 
post_newsletter353
 
follow-dallas
 
true
 
endOfArticle
 
false
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please provide a valid email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up
 
 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Twitter
Tweet
 
 
 
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Emma Brown writes about national education and about people with a stake in schools, including teachers, parents and kids.
 
 Follow @emmersbrown
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Show Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion Policy
 
 
 
0
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SuperFan Badge
 
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Culture Connoisseur Badge
 
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Fact Checker Badge
 
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
The Fact Checker
.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Washingtologist Badge
 
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Post Writer Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
 
 
 
Post Forum Badge
 
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Weather Watcher Badge
 
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
World Watcher Badge
 
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Post Contributor Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Post Recommended
 
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
 
 
 
You must be logged in to report a comment.
 
Sign in here
 
 
 
You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
 
Sign in here
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
All comments are posted in the 
All Comments
 tab.
 
More about badges
Get a badge
 
 
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spam
 
Offensive
 
Disagree
 
Off-Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facebook
 
 
Twitter
 
 
Reddit
 
 
 
 
 
StumbleUpon
 
 
Digg
 
 
Delicious
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Most Read 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 Mar-a-Lago 3, Camp David 0. With Trump as president, is the rustic Md. retreat doomed? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 Analysis 
 Ohio Gov. Kasich is trying to impose this misguided mandate on teachers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 Three D.C. monuments damaged with graffiti over holiday weekend 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 The warm winter means cherry blossoms will peak early — here’s how soon it could be 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 A Christian mom blogger announces she’s engaged to soccer star Abby Wambach 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our Online Games 
 
 
 
Play right from this page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mahjongg Dimensions 
 
Strategy game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Spider Solitaire 
 
Card game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mahjongg Candy 
 
Strategy game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Word Wipe 
 
Word game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
local
 
education
 
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search Jobs
 
 
Featured Jobs
 
 
 
 
 
coordinator, membership & marketing 
 
 
 
The Endocrine Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
specialist, digital marketing
 
 
 
The Endocrine Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
word processor/receptionist - reston
 
 
 
Legal E
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
© 1996-2017 The Washington Post
 
 
 
Help and Contact Us
 
Terms of Service
 
Privacy Policy
 
Print Products Terms of Sale
 
Digital Products Terms of Sale
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Close video player
 
Now Playing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Read content from allstate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Content from Allstate 
 
This content is paid for by an advertiser and published by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the creation of this content. 
Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
 
 
 
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
 
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
