































































































 


























Friend on Facebook






Follow on Twitter






Follow on Pinterest








Subscribe to RSS
 






 
 Search
















×


Search in Site










To search in site, type your keyword and hit enter












Close








 




























HOME


Sports


Politicus Editorials


White House


Politicus Radio


Liberal Nation Rising










Contact Us


About Us







































								Trump’s Pick For Labor Secretary Hired An Undocumented Immigrant To Clean His House							


By 
Sean Colarossi
 on 
Mon, Feb 6th, 2017 at 8:52 pm
For someone vying to head the U.S. Department of  Labor, Puzder certainly has a lot of problems in his own personal labor department.
 














Share


Share on Twitter






Add to Google+






Connect on Linked in






Share on Pinterest






Subscribe by Email






Print This Post




















In the latest controversy surrounding one of Donald Trump’s cabinet picks, it turns out that the president’s choice to head the labor department hired an undocumented immigrant to clean his house.


According to a 
new report
 from the Huffington Post, potential Trump Labor Secretary and chief executive of CKE Restaurants, Andrew Puzder, may find his nomination in jeopardy after telling the Senate that he hired an undocumented immigrant as “household help.”


This is what Puzder told the Senate, according to the report:


“My wife and I employed a housekeeper for a few years, during which I was unaware that she was not legally permitted to work in the U.S. When I learned of her status, we immediately ended her employment and offered her assistance in getting legal status. We have fully paid back taxes to the IRS and the State of California and submitted all required paperwork,” he said.


As the Huffington Post 
notes
, “Hiring undocumented workers has sunk nominees in the past,” but the Trump team says “previous rules for vetting and strict ethics no longer applied” when it comes to their nominees.


This is no surprise given the questionable ethics of the man in the Oval Office, but it’s still a stunning admission for an administration to make.


It’s also surprising given the fact that Trump has made “illegal immigration” the centerpiece of his agenda, and now he decides to look the other way when choosing a labor secretary who hired an undocumented worker as his personal labor.
















More importantly, as the Huffington Post noted, Puzder also told the Senate he offered the undocumented woman “assistance in getting legal status,” a policy Trump opposes.


At the end of the day, though, Puzder may have bigger things to worry about than his history of hiring an undocumented housekeeper.


As the Huffington Post also noted, Puzder’s ex-wife “accused him of domestic violence in a sworn affidavit,” and his restaurants “have been found guilty of an extraordinary number of labor violations.”


For someone vying to head the U.S. Department of  Labor, Puzder certainly has a lot of problems in his own personal labor department.


  
Andrew Puzder
, 
Department of Labor
, 
Donald Trump




Follow Sean Colarossi on Twitter


Trump’s Pick For Labor Secretary Hired An Undocumented Immigrant To Clean His House
 added by 
Sean Colarossi
 on 
Mon, Feb 6th, 2017
View all posts by Sean Colarossi →


















 


















Recent posts on PoliticusUSA
Democrats Hammer Reeling Republicans With 100 Nationwide Rallies To Save Health Care
An America You Can Be Proud Of As Tens of Thousands Storm Town Halls to Demand Answers
Opinion: Republican Judge Offers To Help Congress Impeach Trump
Cowardly House Republican Refuses To Hold His Town Hall If Anyone Shows Up To Protest
Ana Navarro Calls Out Trump’s Unwillingness to Offend Anti-Semitic Supporters
Muslim-Led Crowdfunding Campaign Triples Goal to Restore Vandalized Jewish Cemetery
‘Alt-right’ Media Troll Milo Yiannopoulos Resigns from Breitbart
Trump Attacks “So-Called Angry” Americans Worried About Losing Their Health Insurance
Judge Blocks Texas GOP From Denying Low-Income Citizens Access To Planned Parenthood
Constituents Flood Town Hall After GOP Congressman Holds Event 60 Miles Away












Subscribe To Our Daily Newsletter


















Email
*






Enter Email








Confirm Email










 
 






















This iframe contains the logic required to handle AJAX powered Gravity Forms.




Listen To The Politicus Podcast












 
PoliticusUSA






The latest from Politicus Sports












 










Privacy Policy































					 ©2008 - 2016, PoliticusUSA.com. All rights reserved.

				




Website Privacy & Cookies
































 














