















































































































 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 












































 






close










 






Oscars 2017


TV Recaps


TV


Movies


Music


Books


News


Theater


Gaming


Winter TV


Video


Newsletters


 


Stay Connected
































Subscribe


Customer Service


Get the Magazine


Get a Digital Subscription


Give A Gift Subscription


Order Past Issues




Advertise With Us


Online


Magazine




Learn More


Site Map


Terms of Service


Your California Privacy Rights






Copyright © 2017 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
 
Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.








Skip to content










 






























TV


TV Recaps


Movies


Music


Books


News


Theater


Oscars 2017


 








 


















Last Night on Late Night
Trevor Noah: Steve Bannon is the 'real president'


Nick Romano
•
@NickARomano
Updated 
February 9, 2017 at 2:46pm EST
 


Share
Tweet
Email
 












 










 








Comedy Central








The Daily Show
 host 
Trevor Noah
 played a game of “Who Is the Real President?” on Monday night.


President 
Donald Trump
 may officially hold the title, but he comes in fifth place on the late-night staff poll, while his chief strategist, 
Steve Bannon
, is the current frontrunner.


Noah pointed to various reports regarding how much power Bannon holds in the White House, as well as 
Time
 magazine’s latest cover
 calling him “the great manipulator.”


“The Muslim ban has Trump’s name on it, but once again it turns out he didn’t really build it himself,” said Noah. “It was Bannon’s baby, which shouldn’t surprise anyone — it’s in his name, people. ‘Ban-non.’ ‘Ban-on-Muslims.’ Open your eyes, people!”


The late-night host also pointed to news of Bannon slipping “himself more power on the D.L.” by landing a spot on the National Security Council. Noah further slammed Trump for reports claiming he was unaware of signing the executive order that gave Bannon the position.


RELATED: Hear more of the latest TV news from this week










































“How is this real life?” Noah said. “This is insane. The president didn’t know what was in the executive order.”








































On Monday, Trump came out on Twitter against the notion that Bannon is in charge, tweeting, “I call my own shots, largely based on an accumulation of data, and everyone knows it. Some FAKE NEWS media, in order to marginalize, lies!”






I call my own shots, largely based on an accumulation of data, and everyone knows it. Some FAKE NEWS media, in order to marginalize, lies!


— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
February 6, 2017






That just gave Noah more ammunition. “Trump’s defensiveness is telling. It shows that even he realizes he needs to prove he’s in control, and maybe someday he will be. But for now, let’s congratulate Steve Bannon,” Noah said. “As of this moment, you are the real president. The American people didn’t elect you. But then again, they kind of didn’t elect Trump either.”






Show Full Article





















				Sponsored Stories			




















Comments






Please enable JavaScript to view the 
comments powered by Disqus.










 

















				More from EW			


















 


 


Lethal Weapon
 renewed for season 2











 


 


Louis C.K.'s next two specials are heading to Netflix











 


 


'Samurai Jack': Sneak a peek at the first new episode in 12 years

















 


 


'The 100' actress Nadia Hilker previews Luna going 'bad'











 


 


Debbie from 'Game Changers' says there's no crying in 'Survivor'







See More Stories














Most Popular












 


1


'This Is Us' creator breaks down William's fate, what's next

















 


2


Han Solo movie releases first cast photo

















 


3


'Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.' welcomes back original cast member

















 


4


'Days of Our Lives' renewed by NBC

















 


5


'This Is Us': Ron Cephas Jones on that 'wonderfully sad' road trip




























				See Also			


















































 






























 All products featured were editorially selected. EW.com may receive a percentage of sales for items purchased from these links.


Copyright © 2017 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
 
Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.


 




























Send to Email Address




Your Name




Your Email Address














Cancel



				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			



				Email check failed, please try again			



				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


































 




