 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Desktop notifications are on   | 
Turn off
 
 
 
 
 
 
Get breaking news alerts from 
 The Washington Post 
 
 
Turn on desktop notifications?
 
 
Yes
 
Not now
 
 
 
 
It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign In
 
 
 
 
 
Username
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accessibility for screenreader
 
 
 
Home Page
 
 
 U.S. & World 
 
|
 
 Regional 
 
 
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
 
 
PowerPost
 
 
 
The Fix
 
 
 
White House
 
 
 
Courts and Law
 
 
 
Polling
 
 
 
Monkey Cage
 
 
 
Fact Checker
 
 
 
Post Politics Blog
 
 
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
 
 
The Post's View
 
 
 
Toles Cartoons
 
 
 
Telnaes Animations
 
 
 
Local Opinions
 
 
 
Global Opinions
 
 
 
Letters to the Editor
 
 
 
Act Four
 
 
 
All Opinions Are Local
 
 
 
Book Party
 
 
 
Compost
 
 
 
Erik Wemple
 
 
 
Five Myths
 
 
 
In Theory
 
 
 
The Plum Line
 
 
 
PostEverything
 
 
 
PostPartisan
 
 
 
Rampage
 
 
 
Right Turn
 
 
 
The Watch
 
 
 
Volokh Conspiracy
 
 
 
DemocracyPost
 
 
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
 
 
Redskins
 
 
 
NFL
 
 
 
MLB
 
 
 
NBA
 
 
 
NHL
 
 
 
AllMetSports
 
 
 
Soccer
 
 
 
Boxing/MMA
 
 
 
College Sports
 
 
 
College Football
 
 
 
College Basketball
 
 
 
D.C. Sports Bog
 
 
 
Early Lead
 
 
 
Fancy Stats
 
 
 
Golf
 
 
 
Tennis
 
 
 
Fantasy Sports
 
 
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
D.C.
 
 
 
Maryland
 
 
 
Virginia
 
 
 
Public Safety
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
Transportation
 
 
 
Weather
 
 
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
 
 
Acts of Faith
 
 
 
Health and Science
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
Investigations
 
 
 
Morning Mix
 
 
 
Post Nation
 
 
 
True Crime
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
 
 
Africa
 
 
 
The Americas
 
 
 
Asia and Pacific
 
 
 
Europe
 
 
 
Middle East
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
WorldViews
 
 
 
Checkpoint
 
 
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
 
 
Wonkblog
 
 
 
On Leadership
 
 
 
Personal Finance
 
 
 
Digger
 
 
 
Energy and Environment
 
 
 
Markets
 
 
 
On Small Business
 
 
 
World Business
 
 
 
Capital Business
 
 
 
 
 
Tech
 
 
 
 
 
Innovations
 
 
 
The Switch
 
 
 
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
 
 
 
Arts and Entertainment
 
 
 
Advice
 
 
 
Carolyn Hax
 
 
 
Food
 
 
 
Travel
 
 
 
Wellness
 
 
 
Magazine
 
 
 
Home and Garden
 
 
 
Inspired Life
 
 
 
Fashion
 
 
 
KidsPost
 
 
 
On Parenting
 
 
 
Reliable Source
 
 
 
The Intersect
 
 
 
Solo-ish
 
 
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
 
 
Books
 
 
 
Comics
 
 
 
Comic Riffs
 
 
 
Going Out Guide
 
 
 
Horoscopes
 
 
 
Movies
 
 
 
Museums
 
 
 
Music
 
 
 
Puzzles and Games
 
 
 
Theater and Dance
 
 
 
TV
 
 
 
Restaurants
 
 
 
Bars & Clubs
 
 
 
 
 
Crosswords
 
 
 
Video
 
 
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
Top News
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
Popular Video
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
Live
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
Technology
 
 
 
Style
 
 
 
 
 
Podcasts
 
 
 
Photography
 
 
 
 
 
In Sight
 
 
 
 
 
Washington Post Live
 
 
 
 
 
Events
 
 
 
 
 
Live Chats
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
Rentals
 
 
 
Where We Live
 
 
 
Recently Sold Homes
 
 
 
 
 
Cars
 
 
 
Jobs
 
 
 
Classifieds
 
 
 
Partners
 
 
 
 
 
Express
 
 
 
Parade
 
 
 
 
 
WP BrandStudio
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
 
 
 1996-2017 The Washington Post 
 
 
 
Terms of Service
 
 
 
Privacy Policy
 
 
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
 
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
 
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
 
 
Share on Twitter
 
 
Share on Google Plus
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Pinterest
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
 
Print Article
 
 
Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The inside track on Washington politics. 
 
 
 
 Be the first to know about new 
 
 stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published. 
 
 
 You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up 
 
 
*Invalid email address
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PostEverything
 
 
 
I never cared much about politics. Then Trump nominated Betsy DeVos as secretary of education.
 
 
 
 
The idea of DeVos in the Cabinet has shaken me out of complacency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The inside track on Washington politics. 
 
 
 
 Be the first to know about new 
 
 stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published. 
 
 
 You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up 
 
 
*Invalid email address
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The idea of DeVos in the Cabinet has shaken me out of complacency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
Elizabeth Wade
 
 
By 
Elizabeth Wade
 
 
February 6
 
Elizabeth Wade currently resides in Richmond, Va., and works in the insurance field.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(iStock)
 
 
Like a lot of Americans, I’ve never been particularly political. I’ve never voted in a midterm election. I’ve never voted in a local race, never voted for mayor. I don’t recall voting ever, except in presidential elections. I’d read political articles and keep up with the news, but I didn’t do much research before heading to the polls every four years. My Facebook feed was mostly cat photos.
 
But then President Trump was elected, and he nominated Betsy DeVos to be secretary of education.
 
Before DeVos, I hadn’t followed a single Cabinet nomination, which is probably true of most people. (Surveys regularly show that we 
aren’t particularly informed
 about our government.) At happy hour with my five girlfriends, we probably could have named two members of President Barack Obama’s Cabinet, and the secretary of education was not one of them. I feel bad saying it, but it’s the truth: I simply didn’t think I needed to know. Why? Because I always had a sense that things would be okay, regardless of who was in charge; if Mitt Romney had won instead of Obama, things would have been fine.
 
This was the first time I felt like things could not be okay. And I have found a political voice I didn’t know that I had — or that I even wanted to have.
 
 
 [
The popular uprising against Betsy DeVos
] 
 
 
I can’t pinpoint the moment things changed for me, but it started with Facebook. Like millions of people, I had never heard of DeVos, but she began popping up in my feed, with friends from all over the political spectrum posting about her. I clicked on a few news stories and read some basic facts about her. I’m not naive — I know politics can be corrupt, and there’s a lot going on behind the scenes. I knew there was controversy over some of the other Cabinet positions, that some of the nominees didn’t necessarily have public-sector experience, that some had links to people or events that didn’t look so good. But something about DeVos stuck out to me. The more I read about her, the more baffled I became.
 
I learned she is a billionaire who 
contributes a lot of money
 to the Republican Party. I learned she has never been in public schools, not as a student, a parent, an educator or an administrator. There was nothing in her biography that suggested to me she had anything to contribute to the millions of public school children and teachers who would be under her leadership. I couldn’t even say, “Well, at least her kids went to a public middle school.” She was as qualified to run the Department of Education as I was to run NASA. I don’t say this to insult her intelligence or her passion. She simply doesn’t have any experience. I didn’t know that someone so unqualified could even serve in a Cabinet position.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Betsy DeVos, President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for education secretary, appeared before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee for her confirmation hearing Jan. 17. (Bastien Inzaurralde/The Washington Post)
 
 
 
Of course major political donors enjoy access and influence in our government. But I figured that money could buy you an invite to a White House dinner, not a Cabinet job. Sure, have your time with the president. But you should not have the public school system, which educates 90 percent of the children in our country, depending on you.
 
I don’t have kids, and I attended both private and public schools growing up. I’m hardly an expert on education policy. But I’ve always followed the news about my local school system, whether it was a new superintendent or budget cuts. I know how much public education matters, and so do my friends who are teachers or have children in school. A pregnant friend of mine told me she woke up crying in the middle of the night out of anxiety about what public school might look like for her child.
 
So I started to act. Yes, there are still cat photos on my Facebook feed, but it has mostly become a platform for sharing information and political articles, mostly about DeVos. I’ve sent things to people I said I would never talk to again, to friends I haven’t spoken to in years.
 
I also began calling and emailing my elected officials, something I’ve never done in my life. I picked up the phone and dialed Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.). In a voice mail, I said my name and where I lived. I said I was calling about DeVos and stated my objection. I wasn’t at all nervous, partly because I knew that so many other people were calling. Knowing that I was part of 
a huge wave of people
 giving their opinions made me confident.
 
I’ve seen it not only on social media but in real life: My family and friends never previously talked politics. Now we do all the time. Most of my girlfriends have transformed along with me. Normally we’d be talking about stupid videos or what Kristen Stewart did on “Saturday Night Live” or their kids or my cats or who knows. Now half of our texts or phone calls are about Trump and DeVos.
 
Of course I still have friends who don’t have much of an opinion and friends who are Trump supporters. If I can tell that a friend really doesn’t want to hear about DeVos, I don’t push it. I’ve had friends complain on social media about “all the negativity” and how they “don’t want to see this stuff” on Facebook. I understand — a few years ago, I also rolled my eyes at political posts. But now, hearing those complaints only makes me want to do it more. They can unfriend me if they want.
 
DeVos’s confirmation
 came as a huge blow. Part of me thought just one more person would step up to oppose her nomination. But the disappointment will only fuel my next steps. I know now that each person counts, and I will keep trying. This will not be the last time during this administration that I make a call to my senators. I plan on expanding my activism to other issues and becoming more engaged with local politics.
 
At first when Trump was elected, I wanted to disengage. My attitude was: “I don’t want to know.” I didn’t want to watch CNN. I didn’t want to think it would be as bad as it is. Now I’m glued to all of it. I will be voting in every election going forward. I will educate myself as much as possible on the issues. This has been a huge wake-up call to me and to a lot of politically dormant people. We can’t just sit idly by and hope the government continues to function fine just because it has in the past. I might not be affected that much personally by what happens in Washington. But my neighbor, who helps me out and whom I care about, might be.
 
Yes, the news can be overwhelming and negative, and it takes work to read it all. But it hasn’t made me want to crawl into a hole. It has made me want to come out of the hole.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Twitter
Tweet
 
 
 
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Wade currently resides in Richmond, Va., and works in the insurance field.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Show Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion Policy
 
 
 
0
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SuperFan Badge
 
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Culture Connoisseur Badge
 
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Fact Checker Badge
 
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
The Fact Checker
.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Washingtologist Badge
 
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Post Writer Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
 
 
 
Post Forum Badge
 
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Weather Watcher Badge
 
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
World Watcher Badge
 
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Post Contributor Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Post Recommended
 
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
 
 
 
You must be logged in to report a comment.
 
Sign in here
 
 
 
You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
 
Sign in here
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
All comments are posted in the 
All Comments
 tab.
 
More about badges
Get a badge
 
 
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spam
 
Offensive
 
Disagree
 
Off-Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facebook
 
 
Twitter
 
 
Reddit
 
 
 
 
 
StumbleUpon
 
 
Digg
 
 
Delicious
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Most Read 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 Analysis 
 In one exchange, Sean Spicer demonstrated why there’s skepticism about Trump’s claims of tolerance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 Trump administration issues new immigration enforcement policies, says goal is not ‘mass deportations’ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 Breitbart’s Milo Yiannopoulos resigns following outrage over his past comments about pedophilia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 Analysis 
 The 96 hours that brought down Milo Yiannopoulos 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 Riots erupt in Sweden’s capital just days after Trump comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
© 1996-2017 The Washington Post
 
 
 
Help and Contact Us
 
Terms of Service
 
Privacy Policy
 
Print Products Terms of Sale
 
Digital Products Terms of Sale
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
