













GQ
Style
Grooming
Women
Entertainment
Culture
Video
Subscribe Now
Get the Magazine
Get Even More GQ This Month
12 Issues for $15
Let's do it
Newsletter
Search
You need to enter a correct e-mail address.
Will be used in accordance with our 
Privacy Policy
Search
Donald Trump Sounds Very Annoyed That Everyone Knows Steve Bannon Is the Real President
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Politics
Donald Trump Sounds Very Annoyed That Everyone Knows Steve Bannon Is the Real President
By 
Jack Moore
February 7, 2017
Facebook
Twitter
Email
“I call my own shots” is exactly what someone who doesn’t call his own shots would say.
The nation&apos;s newest reality show has taken the country by storm. 
America&apos;s Got 1930s Germany Vibes
 seemed like a joke when it was first announced back in 2015. I mean, what were the odds that anyone would actually watch that? Well, it&apos;s 
now the number-one show in the world
 (handily beating Arnold&apos;s version of 
The Apprentice
), and it&apos;s got everything you could want: spilling secrets. Unhinged rants. The threat of a totalitarian regime lurking around every corner. And, of course, secret plots from the people who are really pulling the strings. 
EDITOR’S PICK
News & Culture
In Case It Wasn’t Clear Yet, Steve Bannon Is Our President
It&apos;s this last point that&apos;s become the running A-story of the show. Namely the fact that our real president is not Donald Trump, the man who was elected, but rather is Steve Bannon, a devious malcontent who is very clearly manipulating Trump to his own ends. For evidence of this, you can see every news story about every decision this Trump administration has made, or just 
look at this one from yesterday
 about how Steve Bannon is having Trump sign things he doesn&apos;t even understand. 
And, as it turns out, our president (in name only) doesn&apos;t love being told by us or 
Time
 magazine or 
SNL
 or every liberal on Twitter that he&apos;s just a lackey for our actual commander-in-chief, Steve Bannon: 
https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/828575949268606977
Let&apos;s do a quick breakdown of Trump&apos;s slow and delicious breakdown.
I call my own shots...
Okay. That sounds an awful lot like something someone who doesn&apos;t call his own shots would say, but I get why he has to say it. 
... largely based on an accumulation of data...
And you lost me. Do you see how bad Trump is when he&apos;s not just reciting the things President Bannon wants him to say? Is there any chance at all that 
Donald "All Negative Polls Are Fake News" Trump
 is making decisions on "an accumulation of data"? (Also, that phrasing is rough. It&apos;s like he had to use Google to translate this tweet into English from his native Beelzebubese.)
...and everyone knows it.
No, we most certainly do not. You claimed your inaugural-crowd size was the biggest ever, despite photographic evidence that proved that was patently untrue. If you won&apos;t even trust data as sophisticated as a 
Highlights
 "look at these two pictures and tell me what the differences are" puzzle, then I&apos;m not about to believe you have some dudes 
Moneyball
-ing foreign-policy decisions right now. I wonder how yelling at the Australian prime minister affects your politician VORP.
Some FAKE NEWS media, in order to marginalize, lies!
Trump&apos;s obsession with calling things "fake news" is the most predictable thing. This is a man who massively benefited from actual fake news. Pieces that claimed Hillary was deathly ill or implicated in a child-prostitution ring are part of the reason he got elected president, and are real examples of fake news. CNN asking you and your team tough questions? Not fake news.
So our brief look into the mind of Our Glorious Leader&apos;s patsy shows us that he&apos;s an insecure moron who hates that we are all properly recognizing the actual presidency of Steve Bannon. Trump hates that it makes him look like a sad, dumb loser, but on the other hand that means so much extra time for him to watch 
Morning Joe
. 
The 50 Craziest Things Trump Has Done as President:
donald trump
News
Politics
Steve Bannon
MORE STORIES LIKE THIS ONE
Politics
Donald Trump Advisor Stephen Miller Says New Muslim Ban Will Basically Be the Same as the Old Muslim Ban
Politics
Mitch McConnell Went to a Town Hall in Kentucky and Got Dunked on by a Constituent
GET THE
Magazine
Subscribe now and get a FREE weekender bag and the GQ Style Guide.
Subscribe
FOLLOW US ON
Instagram
Follow @GQ for photos of celebrities, what to wear to work, and more.
Follow Us
GQ Report
Contact
Press Center
RSS Feeds
Follow
Follow Us On Facebook
Follow Us On Twitter
Follow Us On Pinterest
Follow Us On YouTube
Follow Us On Tumblr
Follow Us On Instagram
Find GQ.com Around the World
U.K.
China
France
Korea
Italy
Australia
Germany
South Africa
Spain
Mexico
Russia
India
Taiwan
Portugal
Japan
Turkey
Brazil
Thailand
Resources
Subscription Services
Careers
Condé Nast Store
Reprints / Permissions
GQ Media Kit
Site Map
Condé Nast
© 
2017
 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
User Agreement
 (effective 1/4/2014) and 
Privacy Policy
 (effective 1/4/2014). 
GQ may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. 
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with prior written permission of Condé Nast.


























