



























































Close
Latest
Minutes
Politics
Culture
Magazine
Climate
Books
Photography
Podcasts
Subscribe
About
Advertise
Contact
FAQ
Jobs
RSS
Masthead
Privacy
Subscriber Services
Menu
Magazine
Subscribe
Clio Chang
16 days ago
President Steve Bannon is starting to get on Donald Trump’s nerves.
In the first two weeks of Trump’s presidency, many have speculated that Steve Bannon, the former Breitbart
 
chief, is the one calling the shots in the White House. The numerous executive orders signed by Trump fit neatly into Bannon’s white nationalist agenda; their poor execution signal that a government novice is pulling the strings; and Bannon’s unconventional (
and possibly illegal
) appointment to the National Security Council suggests that he, more than anyone, holds Trump’s ear. 
Big Boy. 
#PresidentBannon
 
pic.twitter.com/bR06v4TJeD
— Pia Guerra (@PiaGuerra) 
January 30, 2017


Last night, 
The New York Times
 published a piece
 that said as much. According to the 
Times, 
upon entering the White House, Bannon “rushed into the vacuum, telling allies that he and [adivsr Stephen] Miller have a brief window in which to push through their vision of Mr. Trump’s economic nationalism.” But with protests erupting around the country, and 
headlines shouting
 that Bannon is the power behind the throne, it seems like Trump is starting to get annoyed with his 
racist
 Wormtongue. While Bannon remains Trump’s “dominant adviser,” Trump is angry that he treated him like a human fountain pen, sneaking his way into the National Security Council through an executive order that Trump apparently didn’t read. And Chief of Staff 
Reince Priebus, who seems to have been muscled out by Bannon, has regained some control, instituting a “10-point checklist” before any new initiatives are rolled out.  
It’s clear that the President Bannon memes are getting to Trump. He might not like to do boring boss things, but he definitely wants to look like the boss.
 This morning he tweeted:
I call my own shots, largely based on an accumulation of data, and everyone knows it. Some FAKE NEWS media, in order to marginalize, lies!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
February 6, 2017


Trump wants all the world to know that he is the biggest boy in the White House.  
February 22, 2017
Eric Kleefeld
an hour ago
Mark Wilson/Getty Images
Paul Ryan doesn’t understand his own definition of freedom.
In his latest effort to make the Republican case for ending the Affordable Care Act, the speaker of the House tweeted this:
Freedom is the ability to buy what you want to fit what you need. Obamacare is Washington telling you what to buy regardless of your needs.
— Paul Ryan (@PRyan) 
February 21, 2017


The glaring problem here is the “ability to buy” part. Under the old order, far too many people 
didn’t have the ability
 to buy insurance in the first place. Or if they could, they were subjected to lifetime coverage limits, no coverage for pre-existing conditions, and any number of other personal barriers and restrictions.
And since Obamacare’s major accomplishment was to counter those forces, and thus enable people to get health insurance, that in turn opened up whole new areas of personal freedom: the ability to take risks and get new jobs, or start new businesses, and or simply have a sense of security and peace of mind.
So how exactly would it be a victory for “freedom” to pull out the rug from those who can finally buy health insurance?
Graham Vyse
2 hours ago
 Drew Angerer/Getty Images
Betsy DeVos tried to do something good, so of course Donald Trump overruled her.
Against the education secretary’s objections, the administration is moving to reverse the Obama administration’s federal 
guidelines
 last year allowing students to use bathrooms corresponding with their gender identities.
“[
Attorney General Jeff]
 Sessions, who strongly opposes expanding gay, lesbian and transgender rights, fought Ms. DeVos on the issue and pressed her to relent because he could not go forward without her consent. The order must come from the Justice and Education Departments,”
 
The New York Times 
reported Wednesday
. 
“DeVos, faced with the choice of resigning or defying the president, has agreed to go along.”
DeVos’s position isn’t entirely surprising. Her wealthy family has 
a history of funding anti-gay causes
, but 
she herself quietly advocated for LGBT rights over the years, 
according to the
 Times
. Yet Wednesday’s reporting suggests her personal moderation on this issue is irrelevant.
White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer addressed the topic at Tuesday’s briefing, telling reporters, “
I think that all you have to do is look at what the president’s view has been for a long time—that this is not something that the federal government should be involved in, this is a states’ rights issue.”
Clio Chang
3 hours ago
Alex Wong/Getty Images
Keith Ellison just got the worst endorsement possible.
This morning, Howard Dean endorsed Pete Buttigieg for DNC chair on 
Morning Joe
, a segment that Trump surely watched during his allotted TV time. A few hours later, he weighed in on the race:
One thing I will say about Rep. Keith Ellison, in his fight to lead the DNC, is that he was the one who predicted early that I would win!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
February 22, 2017


Back in July 2015, in an appearance on ABC, Ellison urged Democrats to “get ready” for the possibility that Trump would clinch the Republican nomination, which was vigorously 
laughed down
 by George Stephanopoulos and Maggie Haberman. 
On the one hand, getting a shoutout from Trump is not great for anyone in the DNC race. And we can’t neglect to note Trump’s child-like inability to not make everything about big boy Trump. (Ellison 
fired back on Twitter
 with an appropriate response.) 
But, on the other hand, Trump is actually pointing out something truly positive about Ellison—that unlike most Democrats, he grasped the threat of Trump’s presidency and gauged the sentiment of the country early on. It’s an instinct that is well-suited for someone who wants to head the DNC. In the most self-congratulatory way possible, it seems that Trump has accidentally made a good point.
Eric Kleefeld
3 hours ago
Saul Loeb/Getty Images
The bar for a sitting president has reached a new low.
President Trump’s 
rather perfunctory statement yesterday
 on the new wave of anti-Semitic attacks is earning him some qualified praise in the media.
From today’s 
Politico
 Playbook
:
WELL, YESTERDAY didn’t go too badly. President Donald Trump went to the African-American History museum, where he disavowed racism and spoke out against a new wave of anti-Semitism. He didn’t tweet his thoughts until 6:23 p.m., when he said the “so-called angry crowds” at town halls around the country were “planned out by liberal activists.” There were no massive blowups to speak of. Sean Spicer seemed spry during his press briefing, too.
Here’s a sample of some headlines:
The New York Times
: 
In First, Trump Condemns Rise in Anti-Semitism, Calling It ‘Horrible’
USA Today
: 
Trump denounces anti-Semitic attacks as ‘horrible’
NBC News: 
Trump at African-American History Museum Denounces Anti-Semitism and Racism: ‘It Has to Stop’
Reuters: 
Trump issues first public condemnation of anti-Semitic incidents
And, well, Fox News: 
Trump speaks out on ‘horrible’ anti-Semitic threats.
Is this the low bar we’ve reached? After the administration 
All-Lives-Matter’ed the Holocaust
, Trump condemning anti-Semitism in a monotone voice counts as a comparatively good day. 
(The 
Times
, to its credit, contextualized the remark by declaring it a “first.”) As for any praise of Sean Spicer being “spry,” this was the same day in which he 
pushed back against the Anne Frank Center
: “I wish that they had praised the president for his leadership in this area.”
Sign up for your daily dose of politics, culture, and big ideas.
Sign Up
Eric Kleefeld
4 hours ago
These rowdy town halls are really getting under Donald Trump’s skin.
The president last night embraced the GOP’s message for voters who are angry about the party’s plan to dismantle
 the Affordable Care Act: T
he popular outrage is artificial.
The so-called angry crowds in home districts of some Republicans are actually, in numerous cases, planned out by liberal activists. Sad!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
February 21, 2017


Mitch McConnell similarly brushed off the protesters by declaring they “did not like the results of the election,” and that “winners make policy and the losers go home.” This was an attitude starkly absent from McConnell’s approach in the Obama years, when he 
very early on spearheaded a strategy
 of mass GOP opposition.
.
@SenateMajLdr
 says he "respects" protesters' rights, adds "winners make policy and the losers go home" 
https://t.co/AWLHu9x66G
 
pic.twitter.com/H0RGxrOxWu
— ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) 
February 21, 2017


Iowa Senator Chuck Grassley—who infamously said in 2009 that health care reform would have government 
“decide when to pull the plug on grandma”
—saw that kind of talk come right back around. As a constituent told him: “With all due respect, sir, you’re the man that talked about the death panel. We’re gonna create one big death panel in this country—the people who can’t afford to get insurance.”
Angry constituents confront Chuck Grassley in Iowa: “If it wasn’t for Obamacare, we wouldn’t be able to afford insurance!” 
pic.twitter.com/vrbhbOiBMM
— Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) 
February 21, 2017


Elsewhere in Iowa, Senator Joni Ernst faced a hostile crowd, which booed loudly when she left the forum:
The crowd jeers and chants after Joni Ernst ends her forum after only 45 minutes, few questions 
pic.twitter.com/aHrcbPMxv2
— Iowa Starting Line (@IAStartingLine) 
February 21, 2017


And Rep. Dave Brat (R-VA), who became a living symbol of Tea Party uprisings when he defeated former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor in the Republican primary back in 2014, got his own taste of the new wave of liberal political resistance:
Here's a good example of the rowdiness/frustration at Rep. Dave Brat's town hall tonight. He took over 30 Qs, got lots of pushback. 
pic.twitter.com/L3kHyDUNKw
— Ashley Killough (@KilloughCNN) 
February 22, 2017


February 21, 2017
Brian Beutler
a day ago
Milo Yiannopoulos’s pedophilia scandal has given rise to this weird new parlor game!
Concerned that his defense of adults who have sexual relationships with 13-year-old children might detract from his employer’s core mission of publishing racist agitprop, Milo resigned from Breitbart on Tuesday, just 24 hours after CPAC dumped him as a keynote speaker and Simon & Schuster canceled publication of his book.
His long overdue ejection from polite society has people wondering whether he will eventually repent (or simply disappear for a long time) ahead of a second act in public life. 
Here are the best stabs at what that second act might look like.
1. Porn
Beware: If we all stop paying attention to Milo, he will eventually do porn.
— Josh Barro (@jbarro) 
February 21, 2017


2. 
Dancing with the Stars
The next season of Dancing with the Stars is going to suuuuuuuuuuuck. 
https://t.co/UcWwdWKYWv
— Aaron Fullerton (@AaronFullerton) 
February 21, 2017


3. President and CEO of Media Matters for America. 
What are the odds Milo flips over to truth-telling liberal lion -- ala Brock -- when this gig dries up?
— Glenn Thrush (@GlennThrush) 
February 20, 2017


None of these outcomes would be defensible on their own terms, but might be worth it for humankind considering the plausible alternative where he becomes Donald Trump’s third or fourth national security adviser. 
Josephine Livingstone
a day ago
Drew Angerer/Getty Images
A University of Chicago professor has gone off on Milo Yiannopoulis’s opponents, calling them “spineless c*nts.”
In 
a blog post
, 
Associate Professor of Medieval History Rachel Fulton Brown
 frames Yiannopoulis as a messenger of truth preaching to a populace sick of lies. In this passage, she cites the orthodox “lies” that he challenges:
That women don’t need men. That all men are potential rapists. That women should aspire to something other than motherhood or they are wasting their lives. That women should like casual sex with strangers, hooking up just for the sake of the orgasm. That the children will be fine if their parents divorce. That abortion is morally good.
Elsewhere, Brown describes Yiannopolis’s message and its supposed impact:
“Gender roles work,” [Yiannopoulis] told them. “Feminism is cancer. Abortion is murder.” And the young women and men cheered for him, because they loved him for telling the truth.
Yiannopoulis has been 
accused 
of a form of “gay minstrelsy” in which he performs parts of stereotypical gayness in such a way that he shores up the beliefs of the hard American right. In the post, Brown appears to applaud him for just these traits:
The young man was an unexpected messenger. He talked all the time about having sex with other men. About wanting to be penetrated by black dicks. About how good he was at giving head. But he told the young women they were right to want babies and the young men they were right to want wives. 
Professor Jeffrey Jerome Cohen of George Washington University tweeted a screengrab from Brown’s Facebook page earlier today, in which she compares Yiannopoulis’s cancelled book contract to the crucifixion of Jesus:
Posted by medieval historian Rachel Brown of U Chicago in defense of Milo Yiannopoulos, whom she has defended on Beitbart, her blog, etc 
pic.twitter.com/nV7R4qrUBw
— Jeffrey J Cohen (@jeffreyjcohen) 
February 21, 2017


As Cohen and other medievalists (including 
myself
) have observed, strong veins of conservatism run through the field. Despite the efforts of scholars like 
Suzanne Conklin
 
Akbari
 and 
Geraldine Heng
, contemporary white supremacists and gender traditionalists sometimes look to an imagined version of the Middle Ages for a “purer” time, when (they imagine) sexual, racial, and theological identities were simpler.
The 
New Republic 
contacted the chair of the University of Chicago history faculty Emilio Kourí to ask whether Brown’s blog post, which can be reached through her faculty page, could be considered part of her body of scholarship. Kourí responded that Brown is “
entitled to express her opinions and to publish them,” explaining that “b
logs are not part of any performance or promotion reviews in the History Department.”
Indeed, blogs are “
by and large not scholarship and are not regarded as such,” in Kourí’s view. 
This view defines scholarship very narrowly: An increasing number of academics engage with the media outside peer review, and it is certainly arguable that a scholar’s broader presence in the culture informs their intellectual identity. Young academics are encouraged to build a visible online presence when they are seeking jobs. 
Brown is tenured so she can do whatever she wants.
 I cannot imagine a new PhD feeling entitled to use the language Professor Brown does at her site.
Exploiting the full freedom conferred upon her by tenure, Brown ended her blog post with in italicized line, reading, “
Shame on all of you. You spineless cunts. The bullies are YOU.
”
Eric Kleefeld
a day ago
Nicholas Kamm/Getty Images
Donald Trump is taking anti-vaxxers mainstream.
Trump’s ascension to the presidency after years of
 suggesting vaccinations
 are unsafe, as well as his associations with the likes of Andrew Wakefield and Robert Kennedy Jr., have helped to bring a truly dangerous conspiracy theory into real influence. And this ideology is spreading to the states, too.
The Washington Post
 reports
 on a growing movement of anti-vaxxers in Texas, and an increase in personal exemptions in recent years. Jackie Schlegel, executive director of Texans for Vaccine Choice, told the 
Post
: “We have 30 champions in that statehouse. Last session, we had two.”
As 
The Hill
 reports today
, a bipartisan group of senators and House members are circulating a 
“Dear Colleagues” letter
 on the importance of vaccination. And they lay out some of the actual consequences of modern denialism:
Yet, already this year, states and communities around the country have reported outbreaks of measles, mumps, and whooping cough. The reasons for each outbreak vary, but we know that there are increasing trends around the country that have led to lower vaccination rates in some communities, allowing outbreaks of infectious diseases to take hold with increasing frequency.
While anti-vaxxers exist on both the hippie left and the black-helicopter right, the key difference is that liberals have never put an anti-vaxxer into a position of power. Conservatives have now done it—and many children and other vulnerable people will have to pay a price for that.
Brian Beutler
a day ago
Saul Loeb/Getty Images
Dear President Trump: condemning antisemitism shouldn’t be a Sister Souljah moment. Yours, Captain Obvious. 
Trump and his administration have a curiously 
hard time treating discrimination against Jewish people as a significant matter of historical fact
. So it was notable when on Tuesday—after Jewish Community Centers around the country had faced bomb threats for weeks, and a Jewish cemetery in St. Louis was vandalized—Trump finally condemned anti-Semitism, and managed to do so without referencing or exaggerating his electoral college victory margin.
But he still failed this most basic test of western democratic leadership. 
“Anti-Semitism is horrible and it’s going to stop and it has to stop,” he told MSNBC, before issuing a better-prepared statement from the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture. “This tour was a meaningful reminder of why we have to fight bigotry, intolerance and hatred in all of its very ugly forms,” 
Trump said
. “The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible and are painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil.”
Absent from either condemnation was any suggestion that federal law enforcement resources will be used to investigate these crimes. And when he spoke extemporaneously about the issue, he did so with the same “I alone can fix it” monomania that defined his campaign. His authority and power are in his mind the key agents of every human drama, even ones whose main antagonists going back centuries have been authoritarians. 
Emily Atkin
a day ago
Obama’s environmental legacy is toast. 
If President Donald Trump’s first month has taught us anything, it’s this: Take his promises seriously. Sure, he may have broken 
34 campaign promises
 on his first day in office. But the biggest, most controversial ones—
banning Muslims
, 
increasing deportations
, 
repealing Obamacare
—are already becoming reality. And t
his week, he’s expected to tackle another hefty campaign pledge: tearing up Obama-era environmental regulations.
Trump took a few steps toward fulfilling that promise last week, 
repealing a rule
 that prevented coal companies from dumping mining waste into streams and 
confirming 
EPA antagonist Scott Pruitt
 to lead that very agency. Now, 
The Washington Post
 reports
 Trump is preparing executive orders intended to weaken two of Obama’s most aggressive and controversial environmental regulations: the 
Clean Power Plan
, which was created to fight climate change, and the 
Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule
, which was created to protect 60 percent of America’s waterways from pollution. Trump will also lift a ban on mining coal on public lands. 
The policies Trump is seeking to undo here are the centerpieces of former President Barack Obama’s environmental legacy. Along with the Paris Climate Agreement—which Trump also wants to do away with—the Clean Power Plan 
was the biggest thing a president has ever done to reduce carbon emissions. What’s more, it 
represented a national strategy to prioritize climate action and renewable energy development over the revitalization of the coal industry.
Unraveling Obama’s entire environmental legacy won’t be as simple as signing a few pieces of paper. Completely undoing and rewriting regulations takes time. There 
will be legal battles
 and 
protests
. But Trump is sending a message that these are campaign promises he intends to keep. Environmentalists should believe him.
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
LinkedIn
Copyright 
2017
 © New Republic. All rights reserved.


























































