









































Trending Now




#AudreyRoloffPregnant


#JamesCorden


#ThisIsUs




Best Oscar Dresses of All Time




Subscribe






















































































































Us Weekly Magazine




Home


News


Videos






















Stylish






Moms


Entertainment


Pets


More




Home


Videos


Moms


Entertainment


Pets


Body


Met Gala


Celebrity Directory


Newsletter


Photos


Watch With Us


Polls


Country


Oscars


Emmys


Red Carpet Daily


Holidays With Us


Royal Family


Golden Globes


Grammys


SAG Awards


Olympics


Hollywood Moms


Hot Pics


Subscribe


Best of 2016


VMAs










#AudreyRoloffPregnant


#JamesCorden


#ThisIsUs
















Editor's Picks














Little People, Big World's Jeremy and Audrey Roloff Are Expecting!
















Mama June: I Used Tinder to Get a Date for Sugar Bear's Wedding
















James Corden Obsessively Dissects Lifetime's Britney Spears Biopic
















This Is Us' 8 Saddest Moments: It's the Death You Knew Was Coming
















Hoda Kotb's Baby Haley Joy Receives Giant Gift From Andy Cohen
















Peta and Maks on What They 'Didn't Expect' About Having a Baby














This Little Girl Can't Stop Arguing With Her Dad About Counting
















Hoda Kotb’s Emotional Journey From Breast Cancer Survivor to Mom 




























Super Bowl 




Lady Gaga’s Death-Defying Super Bowl Leap Was Prerecorded Prior to Her Halftime Performance










February 7, 2017 @ 10:48 AM
 
                
                

                
                    


By
 
                        
                        
 Evan Real




































































 
















You May Also Like








Chrissy Metz Blasts Lady Gaga’s Super Bowl Body-Shamers






Metallica's Lars Ulrich: James Hetfield Was 'Livid' After Grammys






Lady Gaga, New BF Christian Carino Attend Grammys Afterparty: Pic














Talk about a perfect illusion! 
Lady Gaga
’s death-defying leap into Houston’s NRG Stadium was prerecorded ahead of 
her epic Super Bowl LI halftime show performance
 Sunday, February 5.




PHOTOS: Lady Gaga's Craziest Stunts and Most Outrageous Controversies




As viewers saw on Sunday night, Mother Monster, 30, kicked off her career-spanning spectacle by standing on the roof of the venue and singing “God Bless America” and “This Land Is Your Land” as 300 Shooting Star Intel drones painted the sky red, white and blue. Following the patriotic intro, Gaga seemingly jumped off the top of the stadium — which has a retractable roof — to descend onto the stage.
via GIPHY
In an interview with 
USA Today
 on Sunday, Intel General Manager Natalie Cheung revealed that Gaga’s daring stunt was taped on Monday, January 30, nearly a week prior to her performance. According to Cheung, the bit was prerecorded not because the “Poker Face” singer couldn’t pull off the tour de force, but simply because of weather and time.




PHOTOS: Hottest NFL Hunks: Tom Brady, Eric Decker, Russell Wilson and More!




“So there’s a lot of weather and environment [issues],” Cheung told 
USA Today
. “In February, you don’t know what it will be like during Super Bowl day. We’d hate to plan all this and, if the wind speeds are too high or if it’s raining and the roof is closed, no one can see this spectacular show. So our creative team, as well as the Super Bowl creative team, felt this would be best to be filmed.”








Lady Gaga performs during the Pepsi Zero Sugar Super Bowl 51 Halftime Show at NRG Stadium on Feb. 5, 2017 in Houston.


Patrick Smith/Getty Images






She added: “Lady Gaga also was on the roof when this was filmed, and from a logistics and creative perspective, it’s a bit hard for her to go from the roof all the way down to the floor of the stadium.”




PHOTOS: 2000s Pop Stars, Then and Now




Even though the superstar’s intro wasn’t live, she still wowed the crowd with a 13-minute medley of her greatest hits, including “Just Dance,” “Born This Way” and “Bad Romance.” 
Gaga reportedly broke down in tears 
— the good kind! — after ending her performance with a triumphant mic drop.














Sources told 
Billboard
 on Sunday that the pop diva was “very emotional” and “crying” as she exited the stage and “dove right into her sister’s [
Natali Germanotta
] arms.”
 
The morning after her performance, the Grammy winner announced 
her plan to embark on the 
Joanne 
world tour
 later this year, which begins in Vancouver, British Columbia, on August 1.
Want stories like these delivered straight to your inbox? 
Sign up now for the 
Us Weekly
 newsletter!






















































Add a Comment
















Sign Up for the Us Weekly Newsletter!


Please enable javascript to sign up for the newsletter.
You will receive the latest news and updates on your favorite celebrities!




























































































Subscribe


Digital Issue


Give a Gift












© Us Weekly 2017
Privacy Policy


Your Privacy Rights


Your Ad Choices


Data Policy


Terms of Use


Contact Us


FAQ


Sitemap






