





























































 








 Home








 U.K.








 News








 Sports








 U.S. Showbiz








 Australia






 


 




Femail








 Health








 Science








 Money








 Video








 Travel








 Columnists
















Latest Headlines






Femail






Fashion Finder






Food






Beauty






Gardening






Blogs






Baby Blog






Discounts








My Profile


Logout











              Login
            


















Feedback


















DailyMail














 








NEW ARTICLES
Home
Top
Share






 show ad






















Am I doing it right? Hilarious photos of people around the world getting ENTIRELY the wrong end of the stick 












The face and voice of a killer: Teen girls captured chilling cell phone footage of the man wanted for their double murder saying 'down the hill' - moments before he is suspected of slaying them in Indiana woods












'When we stopped cuddling after sex': People reveal the exact moment they knew that their relationship was doomed (so when was yours?)












Can YOU name America's longest river and its first president? Take the USA's immigration test to see if you could become a citizen












'Is this the last great secret of womanhood?' Mothers go into meltdown after finding out the 'lady garden' disappears after the menopause












Back to the grindstone! Malia Obama is spotted outside Weinstein offices as she returns to her internship after a weekend partying at NYC club before heading off to Aspen 












Russia's military sees huge upgrades, with 170 new aircraft, 905 tanks, 17 ships and scores of intercontinental missiles added last year 












The ULTIMATE hangover: Man who sparked Spanish terror alert by driving a truck filled with gas cylinders the wrong way ‘had been on a 24-hour $20,000 booze, drugs and prostitutes bender’ 












Freed to kill in a sanctuary city: Illegal immigrant gangster 'robbed then murdered man at rail station' weeks after being released in Denver despite request from ICE to keep him jailed for deportation












EXCLUSIVE: How David Cassidy’s dementia diagnosis may thwart his yet-to-be approved bankruptcy plan after promising last month to pay off his $200,000 debt with future gigs












Care nurse who forcibly gave a 100-year-old man a LAP DANCE is charged with sexual harassment after it was caught on video












Are you guilty of buying your lunch every day? How your midday meal deal could be VERY bad for your health 












Bank robber who used mom-of-two as a human shield when she was killed in a hail of police gunfire escapes the death penalty but is jailed for life












I'm divorced! Woman sets her wedding dress on FIRE and downs a bottle of wine to celebrate end of her marriage (and her new boyfriend thinks the pictures are 'cool')












Woman is attacked by her boyfriend with a sex toy after criticizing his performance in bed saying 'you're not a man, you're a mouse'












Judge blocks Texas from cutting Medicaid funding to Planned Parenthood












Not such a warm welcome! Hilarious photos show the VERY threatening warnings left by people who do not want you to ring their doorbell  












Dakota Access campsite goes up in flames: Protesters set fire to their tents as deadline to evacuate looms and activists warn they are 'ready to go to jail' 












Dakota Access protest camp is due to be shut down by the feds TODAY but activists insist they're not leaving without a fight 












Privileged Cambridge alumnus who became the poster boy of the alt-right: The VERY unexpected rise of Milo Yiannopoulos before 'pro-pedophile' comments brought down his career 












Four out of five Americans oppose sanctuary cities that shield illegal immigrants - just like Donald Trump












Iran warns it is ready to give the U.S. 'a strong slap in the face' if America underestimates its defenses and tells world leaders 'not to do anything stupid' 












Beijing completes South China Sea structures 'designed to house long-range missiles' to spark an early test for President Trump












Two-thirds of Americans worry Trump will drag the U.S. into a new war – and they are in favor of NATO










Previous


Next




















Did YOU spot them? Eagle-eyed fashion fan highlights secret details in Lady Gaga's Super Bowl outfit that he believes serve as subtle signs of her support for the LGBT community


A fashion fan noticed an intriguing detail in Lady Gaga's Super Bowl make-up
The singer had sparkly triangular shapes drawn around each of her eyes
Fan thought it was similar to her make-up during a 2010 show with Elton John
During that 2010 performance, Gaga wore pink triangles around her eyes
The pink triangle has been reclaimed as an LGBT pride symbol but was first used in Nazi concentration camps 
By


Clemence Michallon For Dailymail.com




Published:

  16:10 EST, 7 February 2017


 | 


Updated:

  20:26 EST, 7 February 2017



























e-mail


















628


shares




 


         181


View 
 comments








An observant fashion fan has found a potential hidden meaning in Lady Gaga's 
Super Bowl 
outfit and believes the singer took a subtle stance for gay rights during her performance.
The singer had glittery triangular shapes drawn around each of her eyes during Sunday's half-time show. That detail called to mind another costume worn by Gaga during her 2010 Grammy's performance, which included two pink triangles going from her eyebrows to her cheeks, fashion writer Landon Peoples noted on 
Refinery29
 Monday. 
The pink triangle has been used as a symbol of LGBT pride, but it has far darker origins and was first used on gay inmates inside Nazi concentration camps. The LGBT community reclaimed the symbol in the 1970s.
Scroll down for video 
 










 
Hidden message? A fashion fan noticed the triangular shapes Lady Gaga wore around her eyes during her Super Bowl show - and believes they were a nod to the LGBT community




















Deja vu? Lady Gaga wore two pink triangles around her eyes during her performance at the 2010 Grammy's (left). The pink triangle started as a sign of oppression and has since been used as a symbol of LGBT pride. Gaga's make-up on Sunday night (right) was somewhat similar














Gaga included two pink triangles in her 2010 Grammy's costume - presumably as a sign of support for gay rights, for which she has been a strong advocate.
That year's show culminated with her singing Speechless and Your Song during a duet with Elton John, who wore sparkly glasses and a single dangling earring.
Gaga also showcased a pink triangle at the beginning of the video for Born This Way, the LGBT anthem she debuted later in 2010 at the MTV Video Music Awards.
Peoples found the resemblance between Gaga's 2010 costume and her Super Bowl make-up to be striking, and took it as a nod to gay rights.
The shapes she wore Sunday night aren't exact triangles, but they spread from her eyebrows to her cheekbones, not unlike her Grammy's make-up. In both instances, the triangles were made out of glitter.
That wasn't the only detail Peoples noticed. Gaga's dancers at Houston's NRG Stadium wore costumes with touches of purple, a color often associated with  LGBT pride.
The Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation chose it as the color to wear during Spirit Day, during which people campaign against bullying of LGBT youth.






RELATED ARTICLES




Previous


1


2


Next














Lady Gaga sees her music sales rocket 1,000% after amazing...








Some kind of little monsters! Lady Gaga to duet with...








She's going to Roar! Katy Perry confirms she'll perform at...








PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: And relax! Lady Gaga swaps zany costumes...












'She killed it!': Pink compliments Lady Gaga's Super Bowl...








'It was completely random!': Texas teen hugged by Lady Gaga...








Lady Gaga fans sent into a spin after picture emerges on...








PICTURED: Lady Gaga breaks down in tears as she hugs her...












Share this article


Share


628
 shares








 










 
Purple rain: Gaga's dancers at Houston's NRG Stadium wore costumes with touches of purple, a color often worn during LGBT pride events
Gaga, who sang Born This Way as part of her Super Bowl show, said before Sunday's game that her concert would support values such as inclusion and compassion.
'The only statements that'll be making during the halftime show are the ones that I have been consistently making throughout my career,' the singer said. 'I believe in a passion for inclusion. I believe in the spirit of equality and the spirit of this country. It's one of love and compassion and kindness. So my performance will uphold those philosophies.'
She also paid tribute to her fans in a heartfelt Instagram post.
'I dedicate every second to the love, diversity, compassion, and wild spirit of our fan base. To that kid who felt unwanted, or the grown up who remembers how hard it was to find acceptance. This is for you,' she wrote.
'It is also for those whose hearts and minds have opened to our message. Thank you for believing in us so we could be here today little monsters this is YOUR stage. And I'm gonna leave my heart on it so you never forget it. Let's do this.'
Gaga also sang Woody Guthrie's This Land Is Your Land during her Super Bowl concert, which many took as a stance against President Donald Trump's anti-immigration policies.






Read more:




Lady Gaga Super Bowl Performance Versace Outfit Meaning












Share or comment on this article






































e-mail


















628


shares


























 
 
 
 
 
 
Most watched
 
News videos
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Female cyclist gets revenge on cat-calling workmen
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Footage shows Harrison Ford barely missing a 737 while landing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adorable: M&S cashier calms an upset toddler during shopping trip
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ian Stewart arrested in his dressing gown for Helen Bailey murder
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mooo-ve kid!: Boy tries to jump on cows back but it ends badly
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dashcam captures moment cyclist is knocked down by car in West Sussex
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie Foxx is upset after racist remarks heard in a restaurant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Milo Yiannopolous resigns from Breitbart after child sex remarks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adorable baby loves cuddling his kitten 'best friend'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3D animation used to jurors show where Helen Bailey body hidden
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genius hack for removing dents from car bodywork revealed
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shocking moment a pedestrian gets knocked out by runaway tyre
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 












 
 
 
 
 
 
 
'That's exactly what you deserve, you scum': Furious...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Firebrand conservative columnist Milo Yiannopolous quits...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wallowing in self pity, the mother who faked her own...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Madeleine McCann's angry parents are 'baffled' by...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie Foxx films the moment two men hurl the N-word at...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not just any cashier, this is an M&S; cashier: Supermarket...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Was this woman about to be kidnapped? Terrified teen...
 
 
 
 
 
 
The moment Harrison Ford came TERRIFYINGLY close to an...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sixteen-year-old girl who came to Britain from Poland was...
 
 
 
 
 
 
'Go back to Brazli and show your dark fingers to them!'...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyclist tumbles to the ground in an excruciatingly...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Family of nine Iraqi asylum seekers 'gang-raped drunk...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Looks like it's going better than her last holiday! Peru...
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXCLUSIVE: Stepdad of Utah girl who was rescued by the...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Take it all! Single mother of four who won £14.5million...
 
 
 
 
 
 
'This is scandalous': MPs blast £1 MILLION compensation...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Partners unknown:  Anthony Bourdain kisses Asia Argento...
 
 
 
 
 
 
Arrival 'just sucked', La La Land is 'not memorable' and...
 
 
 
 
 
MOST READ NEWS
 
 
Previous
 
Next
 
 
●
 
●
 
●
 
●
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


























Comments 
181



	    Share what you think
          
















Newest










Oldest










Best rated










Worst rated












 


View all










The comments below have not been moderated.












 


View all







      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
    






We are no longer accepting comments on this article.














More top stories
























Bing






Site


Web






Enter search term:


Search




































Like


DailyMail










Follow


MailOnline










Follow


DailyMail










+1


DailyMail


















 


 


Femail Today





















          Shanna Moakler returning to reality TV alongside 17-year-old model daughter with boxer Oscar De La Hoya
          

          The 41-year-old model is working on new show
        























          Gwen Stefani gushes about 'incredible guy' Blake Shelton... but admits she didn't know he 'existed in the world' prior to them dating
          

          The 47-year-old singer 
        























          Enjoying the single life! Amber Rose bounces back from Val Chmerkovskiy with a night on the town
          

          The 33-year-old flaunted curves in a tight dress 
        























          In bed with Blac Chyna! Rob Kardashian's ex celebrates 40lb weight loss by getting nude between the sheets for racy photo shoot
          

           
        























          'Separating was healthier for us': Flip Or Flop's Christina El Moussa reveals gun incident was breaking point in her marriage to Tarek
          































          Find a mentor, learn to fail and bag a superstar beau: The ultimate guide to making it big in Hollywood and living a glamorous A-list life
          

          SPONSORED
        























          Girls' night! Clint Eastwood's daughter Francesca flashes toned torso as she holds hands with gal pal 
          

          The 23-year-old was in West Hollywood 
        























          'Wish you were here to meet Dream': Rob Kardashian wishes his late father Robert happy birthday by posting cute throwback snaps
          

          The 29-year-old star
        























          'I don't even want to be in a photo next to her... she's incredible': Cindy Crawford's daughter Kaia details downsides of having supermodel mom 
          

























          Ellie Goulding flashes her cleavage in a revealing cut-out silk dress with a thigh-high split as she leads the glamour on the at BRIT Awards 2017 red carpet
          

























          Salma Hayek puts on a busty display as she goes hand-in-hand with husband Francois-Henri Pinault at star-studded Gucci show during Milan Fashion Week
          





























          Looking for a safer hobby? Harrison Ford picks up some hiking gear as video emerges showing just how close he came to disaster in airport incident 
          

























          How can you tell a celebrity romance is the real deal? Experts reveal signs a couple is genuine (and when it's probably a fraud)
          

          SPONSORED
        























          'God is great!' Maddie Spears tears it up on the basketball court just two weeks after potentially fatal ATV crash
          

          Jamie Lynn shared video of her plucky 8-year-old 
        























          EXCLUSIVE: How David Cassidy's dementia may thwart his yet-to-be approved bankruptcy plan after promising to pay off his $200,000 debt with future gigs
          

























          'I'm heartbroken': JoJo cancels concert on doctor's orders as singer shares photo from Urgent Care
          

          Curled up in an examination room 
        























          Back to the grind! Malia Obama walks near Weinstein offices and runs errands as she returns to internship after long weekend partying in NYC and Aspen 
          

























          EXCLUSIVE: Director Austin Chick launches 'emergency' custody battle with ex-wife actress Morena Baccarin over their three-year-old son
          

























          Sisters in sync! Bella and Gigi Hadid rock chic winter looks as they emerge from their hotel for the first day of Milan Fashion Week
          

          Pair looked stunning
        























          You're sheer-ly not serious! Westworld's Angela Sarafyan goes underwear-free beneath her see-through panelled dress as she attends Hollywood bash
          

























          Goodbye Fake News! Jimmy Fallon morphs into Donald Trump to launch his own network that is '100 percent fair and 112 percent factual'
          

          The late night host
        



























          Pregnant Jenna Jameson goes on Twitter rant defending the KKK and slamming Muslims
          

          The former adult star lashed out 
        























          Revealed: Why the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge NEVER hold hands in public (and it's all because of Queen Elizabeth)
          

          The British royals
        























          'I feel complete': Ivory Aquino from When We Rise reveals transgender journey from taking hormones at 16 to surgery at 27
          

          The actress is now 39
        























          Well, she always has her acting career! Ronda Rousey will guest star on TV's Blindspot after humiliating UFC defeat
          

          She seems to have rethought her priorities
        























          All the fun of the fair! Karlie Kloss larks around in a ball pit before taking a turn on the carousel at star-studded  event in London
          

























          Gucci's golden girl! Former face of the brand Charlotte Casiraghi arrives at its Milan Fashion Week runway show in a sequined bomber jacket 
          

























          Oscars-snubbed actress Amy Adams goes make-up free as she distracts herself with grocery shopping days before awards ceremony appearance
          

























          She's no diva! Diana Ross, 72, dresses down to pick up her own groceries in Beverly Hills during break from Las Vegas residency
          

          The legendary singer
        























          'Serial thief scaled walls to break into Simon Cowell's west London house and steal $1.3million in jewelry while mogul and his family slept inside'
          

























          Keeping warm! Victoria's Secret model Chanel Iman and New York Giants football star Sterling Shepard kiss during hockey game in New York City
          





























          Mama, I love you! Spice Girl Geri Horner  joined by her mom Ana as she takes son Monty for a stroll... after going on hike with adorable newborn and husband 
          

























          Cheers to that! Jay Z, 47, is set to become the first rapper ever inducted into the Songwriters Hall Of Fame
          

          Beyonce's husband
        























          Celebrity trainer secrets: Supermodel Jourdan Dunn's workout revealed - and her boxer brother who is also her PT gives his top tips
          

          The 26-year-old beauty
        























          Little Glitch! Jade Thirlwall suffers wardrobe malfunction on red carpet as she is joined by Litle Mix bandmates Perrie, Leigh-Anne and Jesy 
          

























          Priscilla Presley spotted with daughter Lisa Marie's twins for first time since confirming she is caring for them amid messy custody battle
          

























          Mama mia! Natalie Zea, 41, shows off her slim post-baby body in see-through dress as she talks The Detour during Paley event in New York City
          

























          A great match! Rose McGowan and her boyfriend Boots hold hands as they wear head-to-toe black
          

          Divorced husband Davey Detail in November
        























          Is Emma Watson a born again eco-warrior? Harry Potter star plugs ethical fashion as she racks up air miles promoting her new film around the world
          

























          'I was having multiple': Lisa Vanderpump confirms 'orgasmic' joy over Lisa Rinna's scandal on WWHL
          

          Delighted to see someone else in trouble
        























          Cate Blanchett leans in for a 'kiss' with a drag queen after performing in a DRAG SHOW in New York's famous Stonewall Inn
          

          Almost intimate moment 
        























          Ellie Goulding displays her long legs and athletic figure in edgy campaign images for her new shoe collection
          

          The Burn singer, 30, is the perfect poster girl 
        























          'He's not the ONLY reason to wake up early!' Savannah Guthrie posts makeup-free pic of herself with newborn son Charley to announce return to Today show
          

























          'Chasing waterfalls': Scott Disick's model 'ex-girlfriend' Megan Blake Irwin showers under cascading water as she flaunts her body in a tiny black bikini
          

























          That looks familiar! Duchess of Cambridge recycles a five-year-old maroon skirt suit in Wales for her first engagement as patron of a children's charity 
          

























          'He's got a small d***': Insta-famous model Alexis Ren size-shames 'f***boy' ex Jay Alvarrez in EPIC break-up rant
          

          Shamed the Hawaiian filmmaker
        



























          He doesn't skip leg day! Hugh Jackman shows off his 'mutant strength' as the ULTRA fit actor, 48, pays London a visit during Logan promo tour
          

























          'I've stopped caring what people think': Katy Perry talks about how much she loves her thirties... as she stays out late the night before UK award show gig
          

























          Power dressing in pastels: A collection of Princess Diana's most iconic dresses is unveiled including baby blue frock she dazzled in as a debutante
          

























          Dancing in the street! Worse-for-wear Joanna Krupa busts some bizarre moves while wearing a cleavage-baring jumpsuit as she exits dinner
          

























          Back in the game! Gwen Stefani shows off her thighs in shimmering mini-dress as The Voice coaches return to blind auditions in Hollywood
          

























          Seeing double! Queen Letizia welcomes Argentina's First Lady to her Madrid palace (and the glamorous duo look strikingly similar in pastel)
          

























          Camilla gets a telling off after squirting buttercream on chef Hugh Fearnley- Whittingstall's tie (which he then LICKS off) as they ice cupcakes
          

























          Sunshine on a rainy day! Dismal weather fails to dampen Queen Maxima's spirits as she steps out in a chic tweed dress in Utrecht 
          

          The 45-year-old royal
        























          Camelot West for sale! Robert Kennedy Jr. and Cheryl Hines sell their Malibu home complete with two-story treehouse for $6.45m
          

          On the market
        























          Mandy Moore's backless red dress by Jenny Packham steals the show at the 19th Costume Designers Guild Awards in Beverly Hills
          

























          The moment Harrison Ford came close to disaster: New video shows his plane passing just feet over 737 with 106 people aboard as he misses runway 
          

























          Peep show! Ariel Winter flashes skin in cutaway bodysuit and sheer skirt at Toast to Young Hollywood party
          

          The 19-year-old beauty wore a cutaway bodysuit
        























          Jamie Foxx films the moment two men hurl the n-word at him in shocking racist attack in Croatian restaurant
          

          Shooting his latest flick  in Dubrovnik
        























          Bra-flashing Nicole Scherzinger stuns clubgoers as she cavorts with near nude dancers and drops $13K on bar bill during London night out
          

























          Chrissy Teigen trolls husband John Legend in hilarious tweet claiming he looks like cartoon character Arthur...and the internet goes absolutely wild
          

























          Coroner 'will not hold inquest' into sudden death of party girl Tara Palmer-Tomkinson who was diagnosed with pituitary gland growth
          

          The 45-year-old socialite
        























          He's looking for trouble! Bad Chad from The Bachelorette says he's been texting new Bachelor villain Corinne Olympios
          

          Chasing Miami hottie
        























          Elegant Liv Tyler dazzles in a black fringed gown as she enjoys date night with fiancé Dave Gardner at the Fabulous Fund Fair in London 
          

























          It's Lei Michele! Swimsuit-clad Former Glee star Lea puts her derriere on display as she goes for a dip in Maui during Hawaiian vacation with girlfriends
          

























          Scout Willis reveals her underwear in sheer pink dress as she joins sister Rumer at Toast To Young Hollywood bash
          

          Demi and Bruce's kids
        























          Range Rover 'that George Michael smashed into a Snappy Snaps store' goes up for sale on eBay just weeks after the star's death
          

          It's done 80,000 miles
        























          Charlie Rose is pictured in 'great spirits' at breakfast with his CBS This Morning co-host Gayle King just 11 days after open heart surgery
          

























          Sean Kingston suffers beating during alleged altercation with trio Migos in Las Vegas that included gunfire
          

          The 27-year-old rapper was hurt in fracas
        























          Braless Kate Moss overexposes herself in a risque semi-sheer jumpsuit as she steps out for late-night dinner party
          

          The catwalk queen, 43
        























          'She'll avoid places she isn't welcome': George Clooney reveals human rights lawyer Amal is  restricting her travels 'to avoid danger' while pregnant with twins
          

























          Her mini me! Beautiful Victoria's Secret model Jasmine Tookes takes her seven-year-old  sister Chloe Danielle shopping in Los Angeles
          

























          Arrival 'just sucked', La La Land is 'not memorable' and Meryl Streep is 'like a clown': One Academy member spills all on how she voted
          

























          Revealed: The real reason Rachel Lindsay's father didn't meet The Bachelor's Nick Viall on camera during hometown visits
          

          Monday night's episode 
        























          Leggy Nicole Scherzinger swaps low-riding jeans for a leather mini skirt as she heads out for dinner... after accidental 'builder's butt' flash
          

























          Victoria Justice rocks a racy LBD for star-studded L'Oreal bash with boyfriend Reeve Carney
          

          Looked smitten with each other 
        























          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Princess Eugenie's godmother faces police probe over 'whip attack' after altercation with hunt saboteur 
          

























          Leah Adler, mother of famous Hollywood director Steven Spielberg, dies aged 97 at Los Angeles home
          

          She died on Tuesday in California
        























          Fergie flashes cleavage in low-cut tank as she makes fashionable arrival in Los Angeles
          

          It looks as though Fergie travels in style
        























          A vision in black and baby blue! Jane Fonda looks incredible in Versace gown with fitted waist at Costume Designers Guild Awards
          

          She is 79
        























          Sweat it out! Fresh-faced Amber Heard heads to a dance class in Los Angeles
          

          The Rum Diaries star pulled her hair back into a loose ponytail 
        























          Dazzling Doutzen Kroes shows off her endless legs in plunging dress as she's joined by husband Sunnery James at London Fabulous Fund Fair
          

























          Kourtney Kardashian cradles daughter Penelope in a $1K Faith Connexion fringed camouflage jacket
          

          Showcased her dope street style 
        























          They could be twins! Shay Mitchell and Naya Rivera look almost identical as they show off their ample assets at Toast to Young Hollywood party
          

























          Hugh Jackman takes lookalike mom Grace on a London night out... following his latest skin cancer scare 
          

          The 48-year-old Wolverine star 
        























          Back on the market! Flip Or Flop's Christina El Moussa is single again confirming relationship with contractor beau Gary Anderson is over
          

          HGTV star 
        























          'My husband thinks I'm crazy': Kim Zolciak wants to put a diamond in her tooth and has her dentist's approval
          

          After a long day making vacation arrangements 
        























          'Available for hire!' Jenna Dewan Tatum busts out sexy Magic Mike dance moves to rival husband Channing in Las Vegas 
          

          Up to the job!
        























          Ivanka Trump returns home from a day of First Lady duties after accompanying her father on museum tour one day after tweeting for religious tolerance
          

























          Hey Mickey, you're so fine! Nicole Kidman playfully smooches Disney's favorite mouse in Magic Kingdom Park
          

          She has been busy on the promotion trail 
        























          Leggy beauty! Sports Illustrated cover girl Kate Upton covers up  in baggy sweater and leggings for Late Show appearance
          

          Sporting olive green
        























          Still an American Beauty! Mena Suvari wraps up for lunch date with boyfriend Michael Hope at M Cafe in Los Angeles
          

          The actress wrapped up 
        























          Cate Blanchett channels Marlene Dietrich as she performs in a DRAG SHOW in NYC's famous Stonewall Inn including You Don't Own Me solo
          

























          Spoilers ahead! This Is Us kills off crucial character... but actor will be back for season two
          

          Don't click until you've watched emotional episode of NBC drama
        























          Well, tatt's new: Gerard Butler reunites with 'ex' Morgan Brown for romantic vacation in Cancun... as he reveals giant new inking on his chest
          

























          Braless Bella Thorne wears plunging top as she visits skin care clinic in West Hollywood
          

          Bella Thorne has been showing off her individual style
        























          'They've been traveling since they were born': Singer Ricky Martin reveals he takes his twin sons on the road to provide them with 'stability'
          

























          Sheer delight! Dakota Johnson flashes her legs in daring see-through lace gown at Vanity Fair and L'Oreal Paris Toast to Young Hollywood
          

























          Wedding bells! Engaged couple David Hasselhoff and Hayley Roberts spend the day at a jewelry store in Calabasas
          

          Besotted twosome
        























          Sheer beauty! Lily Collins dazzles in multi-colored Alexander McQueen gown with mesh cut-outs at awards gala
          

          In Beverley Hills
        























          'I'm not a troublemaker': Eden Sassoon defends herself against Lisa Rinna over ugly gossip scandal on RHOBH
          

          Tuesday's episode
        























          What can't he do! Ryan Gosling shows off his piano skills in candid behind the scenes shots from Oscar-nominated hit La La Land
          

          Man of many talents
        























          Cara Santana shows off some underboob in sheer paneled dress as she poses next to beau Jesse Metcalfe at Toast to Young Hollywood party 
          

























          'Divorce is imminent': Allison Williams jokes her exhaustive hair care regime could cause problems in her marriage
          

          Showed off lighter locks 
        























          'It's the same old tape': Kim Kardashian denies she's made a second sex tape... after reports of new video circulating online
          

          Rumors of explicit video
        























          Thigh's the limit! Celine Dion wears kinky boots and heart-shaped blazer at the launch of her accessory line
          

          She appeared at Mandalay Bay, Vegas
        























          Champagne showers: Malia Obama hangs at Aspen hotspot while guests dance on tables and spray over 200 bottles of Veuve Clicquot during party
          

























          Well THAT backfired! Chrissy Teigen swiftly shuts down fitness blogger who tried to stop people from eating pizza by sharing a dubious health statistic 
          

























          'I'm skeptical about him': Josh Murray says he questions Nick Viall's intentions as The Bachelor
          

          Murray had no problem expressing his concern 
        























          Jamie Foxx dons brown coat as he heads  to filming on Robin Hood...after police charge diners 'hurling racial abuse' at him in Croatian restaurant
          

























          Staying prepared! Hilary Duff carries wellies from the gym in bone dry LA days after storm passed
          

          Seen clutching a pair of rainproof boots
        























          Pregnant Amal Clooney reveals a hint of baby bump under her red coat as she steps out for the first time since it was revealed she's expecting twins
          

























          Pretty little legs! Lucy Hale puts her toned limbs on display in sultry slip dress while running errands
          

          She displayed her thin stems in a flirty slip dress
        























          Mamma Mia! Pregnant Amanda Seyfried looks radiant as she showcases her burgeoning baby bump whilst walking her dog Finn
          

























          Au revoir! Lily Rose Depp flashes a smile and sports laid back layers while jetting out of the LA airport
          

          The 17-year-old beauty flashed her pearly whites
        























          It's HAMMER time! Busty Nicole Scherzinger wears very skimpy leather bralet and red bondage-style vinyl harem trousers to Wonderland party
          

























          Dr. Luke produces emails showing Kesha's managers concerned about her 'erratic' behavior and weight as legal battle continues
          

          The Tik Tok singer
        























          Back to her roots! Courtney Love wears grunge-inspired plaid and denim as she touches down in LA
          

          She got her start as one of the founding ladies of grunge music
        























          Courteney Cox rocks fuzzy slippers while running errands in Beverly Hills
          

          The 52-year-old Golden Globe nominee wore all black
        























          'It will be even more memorable': Sir Elton John adds Wollongong to his Once In A Lifetime tour for Australian fans
          

          He's touring Down Under
        























          Partners unknown: Anthony Bourdain kisses Asia Argento after night out as it is revealed he is dating Italian star who looks just like ex-wife Ottavia
          

























          Thinking about her Starboy! Selena Gomez goes to lunch as her friend reps The Weeknd shirt in LA
          

          She was spotted hanging out with a friend 
        























          'I'd have bottles all around my hotel room': Cocktail star Bryan Brown reveals co-star Tom Cruise insisted on a bartending championship
          

























          Guy Ritchie cuddles up to glamorous wife Jacqui Ainsley at BFI dinner as she stuns in a paisley gown
          

          They've been together seven years
        























          It's a girl! Hoda Kotb becomes a mom for the first time at 52 after adopting a baby daughter named Haley Joy 
          

          The Today Show anchor 
        























          Pictured: Moment Stella McCartney clashed with taxi driver after 'rear ending' his cab then refused to give him her details 
          

          The fashion designer
        























          Bellissima! Sara Sampaio takes Milan by storm in all-black outfit ahead of Fashion Week
          

          A day before the National Chamber Of Italian Style's slated to kick off
        























          Ryan Gosling plays it cool as he dines at celeb hot spot ahead of the Oscars this weekend
          

          The La La Land star was at Little Dom's on Tuesday
        























          EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: Pamela Anderson asks the Queen's bearskin-clad guards to switch to faux fur, but does she have an agenda?
          

























          'My goal is to keep him offstage!' Jimmy Kimmel vows to make sure Matt Damon doesn't ruin his Oscars hosting gig
          

          He's hosting the Oscars live telecast 
        























          'Yesssss! He smashed it!' Brit girl group Little Mix heap praise on Ed Sheeran after he performs their hit single Touch while on UK radio show
          

























          The Queen of the red carpet: Helen Mirren oozes elegance in an ethereal floral gown at BFI dinner
          

          She always cuts a glamorous figure
        























          Thrown to the Lyons! Demi Moore set to play mysterious nurse as she joins cast of Empire in recurring role
          

          The 54-year-old Ghost actress 
        























          Dannii Minogue flaunts her cleavage and tiny waist in a floral bardot dress at Brit singer Gary Barlow's The Girls musical
          

          Kylie's singing sister
        























          'My worst nightmare happened': Ryan Seacrest opens up about the electrical fire at his $50 million mansion 
          

          Blaze on Sunday
        























          These boots were made for walking! Caitlyn Jenner struts around in winter heels on her daily coffee run
          

          She looked ready for business or pleasure 
        























          'Busting out some spice power!' Mel B sings Wannabe during final Chicago performance on Broadway
          

          Known as Scary Spice
        























          She's just wild about him! Smitten Paris Hilton wears leopard print as she sinks her claws into new love Chris Zylka in selfie
          

          She went all out with the love fest
        























          New romance? Bella Hadid 'flirted with a handsome photographer at LOVE party' as she FINALLY moves on from The Weeknd 
          

          In London
        























          Pampered diva Mariah Carey admits she's 'incapable of being in the real world and surviving' as she muses over her New Year's Eve fiasco 
          

          It was a 'chaotic' performance
        























          Nothing Rocky about this relationship! Kendall Jenner is spotted again with rapper A$AP as they enter same hotel in Milan
          

          In Italy
        























          Has she Kloss her mind? Braless Karlie risks a serious wardrobe malfunction as she shows off plenty of sideboob in a VERY daring semi-sheer dress
          

























          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Can young Kendall keep up with Ms Christensen? Supermodel, 48, is still turning head with her shapely legs at London Fashion Week 
          

























          One is the thriftiest royal... bar none! Simple electric fire is seen glowing in the background as the Queen presents award to poet Gillian Allnutt
          

























          Prepping for the role? Olivia Newton-John's daughter Chloe Lattanzi flaunts TINY waist and very plump pout after announcing she's starring in new film
          

























          Armed and ready! Alessandra Ambrosio highlights her toned figure in Victoria's Secret gear for workout
          

          She was the first spokesmodel for its PINK line
        























          Broncos star Emmanuel Sanders 'lied about going to his child's birth so he could miss practice and party while having numerous affairs' claims ex 
          

























          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Princess Eugenie's godmother faces police probe over 'whip attack' after altercation with hunt saboteur 
          

























          Chris Brown's ex-girlfriend Karrueche Tran files a restraining order against the singer claiming he 'threatened to kill' her
          

          He assaulted Rihanna 
        























          Ciao, Stella! Leggy Maxwell dazzles in a tiny white skirt as she touches down in Italy ahead of Milan Fashion Week 
          

          Victoria's Secret model
        























          Is there anything she can't do? Margot Robbie sets pulses racing as she takes on Monaco Grand Prix track in Nissan's new electric sports car
          

























          'I love you so much B': Paris Jackson wishes younger brother Blanket a happy 15th birthday with sweet flashback snap
          

          Throwback snap
        























          EXCLUSIVE: A taxing time for Ivanka as she is hit with a lien by New York State for non-payment of $5,000 in taxes on her Trump Tower jewelry store 
          

























          Back in mum mode! Cate Blanchett enjoys a day out with husband Andrew Upton and their children, including their growing daughter Edith, at a park in New York
          

























          EXCLUSIVE: Gossip Girl star Kelly Rutherford's bankruptcy case ends and her ex-husband gets only a fraction of his $1.5million claim
          

























          It's a girl! Amber Tamblyn, 33, announces she's welcomed first child with husband David Cross, 52, by sharing humorous Instagram post
          

























          'Axl even got an extra cheer for knowing what city he was in': Guns N' Roses wows Perth crowds at their final Australian concert... after Melbourne gaffe
          

























          Paula Patton has Robin Thicke's lawyer kicked off the case over technicality as custody war rumbles on
          

          Tensions are rising between the exes
        























          Angelina Jolie admits Brad Pitt is a 'wonderful' dad in new interview and gets emotional as she says she is 'determined' to make her family 'healthier' after divorce
          

























          Ex-NFL star Cedric Benson is busted for DUI but blames his eight years of professional football for failing to recite his ABCs
          

          He was seen speeding
        























          Retired WNBA star says she was bullied and attacked by fellow players because she was STRAIGHT
          

          Candice Wiggins retired abruptly from the New York Libertys 
        























          Wondrous in white! Emily Ratajkowski looks chic as she focuses on fashion duties in Milan after having 'private naked photos stolen by hackers'
          

























          'Today's blessing brought to you by Adidas!' Madonna dresses her new twins in matching tracksuits
          

          Material Girl introduces daughters to her style 
        























          Like a seasoned pro! Ruby Rose cuts an edgy figure in skinny jeans and a biker jacket on set of Pitch Perfect 3 as she jokes around with co-stars
          

























          We're smitten! As Lana Del Rey releases her new single 'Love', FEMAIL highlights the dreamy fashions worn in the song's out-of-this-world video
          

























          Mob boss! John Travolta is surrounded henchman on the set of The Life & Death Of John Gotti
          

          He is playing the infamous mob boss 
        























          A royally stylish host!  Queen Elizabeth looks glamorous in a fitted white and blue lace dress as she hosts a party at Buckingham Palace 
          

























          Eligible bachelor Nick Jonas takes mystery blonde for a late night snack after bowling date in LA
          

          He has previously dated a Miss Universe 
        























          'Equal rights for everyone': Rachel Griffiths and Guy Pearce hope new miniseries about gay rights movement is a call to action 
          

























          'We were just trying to fight for our lives': 30 Rock and Lincoln Heights actors reveal they narrowly escaped death when their car was swallowed whole by a LA sinkhole
          

























          The Hills' baby bonanza! Jason Wahler and wife Ashley expecting first child... joining his TV ex Lauren Conrad and co-star Whitney Port
          

























          Turning up the heat! Kim Kardashian dons full sweat suit in a bid to reach her new goal weight of just 115lbs
          

          Says she has lost 70lbs in recent months
        























          Why David Cassidy's dementia caused him to fall off the stage and forget lyrics at the young age of 66
          

          History of condition in singer's family history 
        























          Kate Winslet shares a steamy smooch with Idris Elba as they film emotional scenes for The Mountain Between Us in Vancouver
          

          Putting on sultry display 
        























          'Wait, you have a wife?!': Gayle King shares her dating disaster story after inadvertently courting a married man
          

          Oprah's best friend, 62
        























          Comedian Mike Epps is arrested for 'hitting fan in New Orleans casino'... and now there's a warrant out for another arrest after he missed his arraignment
          

























          Flower power lunch! Makeup-free Ashley Tisdale picks up carryout meal in rose-embroidered hoodie after grueling gym session 
          

























          Braless Karlie Kloss bares her sideboob in daring sheer dress as she joins leggy Doutzen Kroes and statuesque Lily Donaldson at star-studded event
          

























          Perfect pairings! As Kendall Jenner and Gigi Hadid rock winter's simplest and most stylish fashion formula, FEMAIL breaks down hoodie and coat combos
          

























          Judd Apatow calls Kanye West 'crazy' but 'creative' after working with him on Anchorman 2 where the rapper caused a TWO HOUR delay over his jacket
          

























          Family time! Courtney Love, 52, poses next to her mini-me daughter  Frances Bean, 24, the day after what would have been Kurt Cobain's 50th birthday
          

























          'My heart is full': Jessa Duggar posts sweet photo of her two little boys just weeks after giving birth to her second son
          

          The 24-year-old mom

























          Now that's confidence! Harrison Ford flies Calista Flockhart and son Liam back from vacation just a week after his near miss with passenger plane
          

























          'I'm single and 45': Sophie Monk adopts an American accent and pranks phone scammers in hilarious video
          

          Australian model
        























          'It's our normal': Flip Or Flop's Christina El Moussa reveals what it is like working with ex Tarek... and says they have no plans to stop
          

          Talking on GMA
        























          Tom Brady's missing Super Bowl jersey is valued by Houston police at $500,000 and say whoever stole it could face a jail term of five years
          

























          Newly single Blac Chyna reveals 40lb weight loss after baby... and says she's determined to drop 20lb more before bikini season
          

























          Gillian Anderson flaunts her incredible figure in cleavage teasing gown at the UK premiere of Viceroy's House
          

          The X-Files actress, 48 
        























          He can do anything! Tom Hanks' first book announced for release in October and will pay tribute to his obsession with vintage typewriters
          

          The Oscar-winning actor
        























          Taxi for Miller! Make-up free Sienna shows off her naturally pretty features as she hails a cab in New York
          

          The willowy actress went makeup free 
        























          'They have been getting close': Newly-single Paris Jackson 'strikes up friendship' with English reality TV star Tom Kilbey, 26
          

          She is still only 18 
        























          'She's definitely one of the smartest people I know': Model Kendall Jenner, 21, gushes over her big sister Kim Kardashian, 36, in web post
          

























          The never-ending vacation! Bella Thorne poses in a bikini AGAIN as she cruises the Caribbean with her gal pals
          

          The 19-year-old actress
        























          'Familia & friendship!' Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony reunite to celebrate twins Max and Emme's 9th birthday with Leah Remini
          

          They divorced in 2011 
        























          Great minds! Model sisters Gigi and Bella Hadid sport matching ripped bottoms as they steps out in Italy ahead of Milan Fashion Week
          

          Looked so stylish
        























          'We were just trying to fight for our lives': 30 Rock and Lincoln Heights actors narrowly escape death when their car is swallowed whole by LA sinkhole
          

























          Make-up free Gwyneth Paltrow embraces the natural look as she and beau Brad Falchuk make rare appearance together on coffee run
          

          The low-key couple
        























          'Can I keep him?': Reese Witherspoon bonds with a horse in New Zealand while filming A Wrinkle In Time
          

          Blonde actress is a country girl at heart
        























          Drake says he has 'a lot of love' for Rihanna as he wishes her a happy 29th birthday onstage in Dublin 
          

          Rapper has ex on his mind after J.Lo split
        























          When in Du-bae! Mariah Carey, 46, flashes hint of her ample assets in very skimpy bra top as she enjoys romantic break with beau Bryan Tanaka, 33
          

























          Dutch Queen Maxima dazzles in a hot pink dress and heels as she visits a farm with her husband King Willem-Alexander
          

          Eye-catching outfit
        























          Rita Ora opts for a low-key look as she teams a chic cream coat with a slogan baseball cap to jet into London
          

          The ANTM host
        























          Wacky last wishes of celebrities revealed: Tupac had his ashes smoked, Liz Taylor was late to her own funeral and Jimmy Dean was buried in a $350k piano
          

























          The Beauty is upbeat! Emma Watson offers a beaming smile as she returns to London in edgy leather jacket after dazzling at Paris photocall
          

























          Daughter, 27, of singer Amy Grant and the inspiration for her smash hit 'Baby Baby' donates a kidney to her best friend 
          

          Millie's amazing gesture
        




















 


 


DON'T MISS





















          Sweet deal! Elizabeth Olsen samples ice cream flavors before settling on a pint and a cookie
          

          The 28-year-old indulged in a frozen treat 
        























          'Absolutely never': Flip Or Flop's Tarek El Moussa denies he was suicidal during gun incident... and reveals he also suffered testicular cancer
          

























          'A new Star Wars story begins': First Han Solo cast photo is shared showing Alden Ehrenreich with Emilia Clarke and Chewie in Millennium Falcon
          

























          Former Game Of Thrones star Rose Leslie strips off for steamy shower scene with lesbian love Helene York in new legal drama The Good Fight
          

























          'I plummeted to the stage': Julie Andrews reveals how she almost DIED while filming her iconic Mary Poppins flying scene when a support wire broke
          

























          It's Peta vs Maks! New parents Murgatroyd and Chmerkovskiy will compete on upcoming season of Dancing With The Stars
          

          Tot was born in January
        























          'I love you!': Kim Kardashian wishes best friend Jonathan Cheban a happy birthday... after being up all night with a crying Saint
          

          The 36-year-old star
        























          PICTURED: Bachelor vet Josh Murray is seen kissing his ex-fiancee Amanda Stanton before heading into LA hotel together
          

          Hot date in Hollywood
        























          Gordon Ramsay's father-in-law and three of his wife Tana's siblings are charged in computer hacking probe 
          

          High drama for TV chef
        























          Reunited for the kids! Tobey Maguire and estranged wife Jennifer Meyer look somber as they take their two children to lunch in Malibu
          

























          It's Harry-mania! Fans line up for four HOURS to meet the Prince as he  visits injured troops charity Walking with the Wounded in northern England
          

























          All partied out? Kendall Jenner comes over all shy as she jets out of London following WILD night at star-studded London Fashion Week bash
          

























          '99% of my inspiration comes from him, because he has always been my world': Paris Jackson, 18, pays tribute to her father Michael
          

























          Braless Bella Hadid suffers EPIC wardrobe malfunction as her boob falls out of plunging leather mini following London Fashion Week bash
          

























          Blonde bombshell Katy Perry flaunts her slimline figure in chic khaki co-ords as she arrives at BBC radio studios in London
          

          The 32-year-old singer 
        























          Back to business! Emily Ratajkowski touches down at Milan Fashion Week after having 'private naked photos stolen by hackers'
          

























          Back to the future! Katy Perry sizzles as a futuristic siren having a ball at a theme park in Chained To The Rhythm music video
          

          The 32-year-old singer
        























          Tom Schwartz dresses in drag for bachelor party on Vanderpump Rules while Katie Maloney gets lap dance
          

          Celebrated his bachelor party
        























          Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek, 76, delights fans by RAPPING lyrics to Kanye, Drake and Desiigner then admits: 'I'm not too good at it but I was getting into it'
          

























          'This is very unexpected': Andi Dorfman stuns Nick Viall after his muddy date with Raven on The Bachelor
          

          Showed up at his hotel 
        























          Get back! The moment Stella McCartney 'rear-ends taxi driver then drives away from scene of accident without leaving her details'
          

























          'Nice implants': Kylie Jenner reignites boob job rumors as she poses for a VERY busty selfie in a low-cut crop top
          

          Previously denied it
        























          Brooklyn Beckham manages to raise a smile as he steps out in London after breaking his collarbone in horrific snowboarding accident
          

          Victoria Beckham's son
        























          Puppy love! Olivia Munn fusses over her rescue dog on first day of shooting horror film The Predator
          

          She embraced her rescue dog 
        























          Rooney Mara flaunts lithe frame in black ensemble in  Hollywood... as it's claimed she and Joaquin Phoenix are 'madly in love'
          

          Solo outing
        























          NBA star Patty Mills' Caucasian girlfriend is accused of culturally appropriating his Torres Strait heritage with new swimwear line
          

          Launches in March
        























          Ladies who lunch! Aussies Naomi Watts and Isla Fisher join their A-list pals for a girls-only meal...but who brought the 'stripper'?
          

          Hollywood roll call
        























          'This is not who we are as Americans': Andy Cohen gets serious on WWHL about Jewish cemetery vandalism
          

          He has close family members buried there
        























          Lovebirds Josh Brolin and wife Kathryn Boyd take flight as they board jet out of  Los Angeles
          

          The 49-year-old actor wore a hip, sporty ensemble
        























          Julia Roberts covers up in a raincoat in Malibu for lunch date with her twins Phinnaeus and Hazel
          

          She's known as a Pretty Woman
        























          It's a boy! Lauryn Hill becomes a grandmother at 41 after her son Zion Marley welcomes baby Zephaniah
          

          Her 19-year-old son is a daddy for the first time
        























          Cheers to the single life! Drew Barrymore gets in some girl time and a few wines while vacationing in Mexico
          

          In Tulum, Mexico with her girlfriends
        























          'Older sisters are a blessing!' Kylie Jenner raids Khloe Kardashian's closet for a killer pair of thigh-high boots
          

          Took to Instagram 
        























          'I'm gonna miss you': Jessa Duggar calls sister Jinger 'role model' as she marries and moves on Counting On
          

          A quick courtship
        























          Kaya Scodelario, 24, cozies up to husband Benjamin Walker, 34, at Burberry bash... as she shows off her slim figure just two months after giving birth
          

























          Tamron Hall welcomes kids from city program promoting diversity into her home one day after she was seen looking pretty as a peacock in $10k designer duds
          

























          'I loved it!' Stranger Things' David Harbour defends Winona Ryder after the actress' facial expressions during his SAG Awards speech went viral
          

























          Naomi Watts bundles up as she braves the rain to go shopping...but is still wearing sunglasses in California
          

          She's normally based on the East Coast
        























          Lily Collins dresses her svelte frame in baggy jeans and steel-toed boots for rainy outing in LA
          

          The 27-year-old stepped out in casual attire
        























          United front! Naomi Watts and Liev Schreiber play happy families as they take their children to a party...nearly six months after split
          

























          Bombshell in blue! Sofia Vergara highlights figure in skinny jeans and spiked booties for lunch with friends 
          

          The 44-year-old Modern Family star 
        























          'Happy birthday to my girl:' Cindy Crawford's husband Rande Gerber shares sweet photo of his age-defying model wife as she turns 51
          

          Cute snap
        























          It's knot for everyone! Kendall Jenner wears bizarre cape as she joins model pals Bella Hadid, Jourdan Dunn and Winnie Harlow at  star-studded LFW party
          

























          She's got a flare for fashion! Model Kate Moss flaunts her endless legs in bright green trousers while dining out at Scott's with her friends
          

























          Jeremy Clarkson, 56, and his stunning new girlfriend Lisa Hogan, 46, look loved-up as they jet out of Barbados after romantic week-long holiday
          

























          Angelina Jolie snacks on scorpions and tarantulas with her kids in Cambodia... after opening up about 'difficult' split from ex Brad Pitt
          
























 


 


Today's headlines






 


 


Most Read


















 

              How to feed your family for £16 a WEEK: Thrifty mother-of-four reveals how she creates hearty meat-based meals that cost just 62p a head
            








 

              Revealed: Why the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge NEVER hold hands in public (and it's all because of the Queen)
            








 

              'I've chosen the career for myself, I don't need to prove anything to anyone': Michelle Keegan hits back at haters as she stuns in her fashion campaign
            








 

              Taking no chances! Police armed with tasers and DRONES keep tabs on the Duchess of Cambridge as she arrives in Wales to visit a children's charity 
            








 

              Can YOU find the 12 words lurking in the landscape? You'll need to squint to spot the hidden text through the rain in this tricky brainteaser 
            








 

              Would YOU get the job? The 20 toughest interview questions asked by the world's most elite firms (and how to answer them correctly)
            








 

              Mother who modelled her look on Julia Roberts' PROSTITUTE character in Pretty Woman finally ditches her PVC dresses and fishnet stockings to look 'normal' for her children
            










MORE HEADLINES
















 

            Overweight nursing student, 22, who was once told she was 'a waste of a pretty face' documents her incredible physical transformation online, after shedding 100LBS
            








 

            Parents share heartbreaking image of the moment their baby died in their arms after being 'ravaged' by meningitis they thought was a common cold
            








 

            Revealed: Why the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge NEVER hold hands in public (and it's all because of the Queen)
            








 

            Well THAT backfired! Chrissy Teigen swiftly shuts down fitness blogger who tried to stop people from eating pizza by sharing a dubious health statistic about how much oil it contains
            








 

            Spot on! Bizarre beauty trend sees clear-skinned freckle fans having the sun-kissed marks TATTOOED onto their faces
            








 

            'Is this the last great secret of womanhood?' Mothers go into meltdown after finding out the 'lady garden' disappears after the menopause
            








 

            Taking no chances! Police armed with tasers and DRONES keep tabs on the Duchess of Cambridge as she arrives in Wales to visit a children's charity 
            






MOST READ IN DETAIL

































































































	SHARE PICTURE
      






























Copy link to paste in your message




































































































 


 


Back to top














Home










U.K.










News










Sports










U.S. Showbiz










Australia










Femail










Health










Science










Money










Video










Travel










Columnists














Sitemap


Archive


Video Archive


Topics Index


Mobile Apps


Screensaver


RSS


Text-based site


Reader Prints


Our Papers


Top of page




Daily Mail


Mail on	Sunday


This is Network


This is Money




Metro


Jobsite


Mail Travel


Zoopla.co.uk


Prime Location






Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd


Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group


© Associated Newspapers Ltd


Contact us


How to complain


Advertise with us


Contributors


Work with Us


Terms


Privacy policy & cookies
























 
























 


 










































