

 
 
 
 
 










































































































































Skip to main content






Natural Resources Defense Council


























Search
















Toggle search








ACT NOW


DONATE








About Us


Issues


Policy


































 


































 


Say NO to Fast-Tracking the Dakota Access Pipeline!




President Trump wants to bulldoze ahead with the disastrous Dakota Access pipeline as soon as possible — but by law, the Army Corps of Engineers is required to do a thorough environmental review of the pipeline's impacts on the Standing Rock Sioux tribe's way of life, drinking water supplies and our environment.


Demand that the Army Corps conduct a full, truthful review of the Dakota Access pipeline — and stand with the Standing Rock Sioux in complete and total opposition to this reckless project.




 


President Trump wants to bulldoze ahead with the disastrous Dakota Access pipeline as soon as possible — but by law, the Army Corps of Engineers is required to do a thorough environmental review of the pipeline's impacts on the Standing Rock Sioux tribe's way of life, drinking water supplies and our environment.


Demand that the Army Corps conduct a full, truthful review of the Dakota Access pipeline — and stand with the Standing Rock Sioux in complete and total opposition to this reckless project.










 


 


 












 




 










 




Make Your Voice Heard!






Your message will be sent to:




Army Corps of Engineers
















Subject line:


Conduct a full review of the Dakota Access pipeline


Dear Army Corps of Engineers: 








*


Personalize your message






I am outraged by President Trump's recent executive memorandum fast-tracking the Dakota Access pipeline. I urge you to conduct the full, truthful environmental review required by law as a necessary next step before moving ahead with this disastrous project. And ultimately, I call on you to slam the door on the pipeline for good. 

Dakota Access would carry 450,000 barrels of oil a day across more than 1,100 miles, cutting through countless sensitive natural areas and threatening the Standing Rock Sioux tribe's land, their main source of drinking water and their cultural heritage. Just one oil spill would cause irreparable damage the Standing Rock Sioux's way of life, drinking water supplies and our environment.

Your review must evaluate the full length of the pipeline, considering the impacts of oil spills and emergency response capabilities along the entire route, examining the cultural impacts, consulting with the Standing Rock Sioux tribe and evaluating alternative routes. 

Thank you.








Sincerely,
[Your Name]
 
[Your Address]
 
[City, State ZIP]










Your Information


*
Required fields






*


First Name:
















*


Last Name:
















*


Your Email:

























 







When you take action you'll become a member of NRDC's Activist Network. We will keep you informed with the latest alerts and progress reports.












 




Yes, I would like to receive periodic updates and communications from NRDC.






 




Remember me. 
What's this?


























 


 




















About Us






Careers






Contact Us






Media Center










Policy Library






Sitemap






En Español
















Follow Us










Twitter












Facebook












YouTube












RSS












Tumblr





























        © Natural Resources Defense Council 2017 
Privacy Policy


State Disclosures














 






