































































































 


























Friend on Facebook






Follow on Twitter






Follow on Pinterest








Subscribe to RSS
 






 
 Search
















×


Search in Site










To search in site, type your keyword and hit enter












Close








 




























HOME


Sports


Politicus Editorials


White House


Politicus Radio


Liberal Nation Rising










Contact Us


About Us







































								Admiral Mike Mullen Says Steve Bannon Does not Belong on National Security Council							


By 
Hrafnkell Haraldsson
 on 
Mon, Feb 6th, 2017 at 10:44 am
"Putting aside for a moment Mr. Bannon’s troubling public positions, which are worrisome enough, institutionalizing his attendance threatens to politicize national security decision making."
 














Share


Share on Twitter






Add to Google+






Connect on Linked in






Share on Pinterest






Subscribe by Email






Print This Post




















In a very 
strongly-worded and no punches pulled op-ed
 in 
The New York Times
 tellingly titled, “I Was on the National Security Council. Bannon Doesn’t Belong There,” Admiral Mike Mullen, who served on the National Security Council under both George W. Bush and Barack Obama, lays down the facts on and concerns about Steve Bannon’s participation.


Admiral Mullen says that “Some of Mr. Trump’s plans, such as including the director of the C.I.A. as a full voting member of the council, are welcome.” He notes, however, that there is is a very big “but”:


“But some of Mr. Trump’s other plans are unsettling and should be remedied as soon as possible — in particular the role he has given to his top political adviser, Stephen K. Bannon.”


He explains the need for “professionals” on the council:


In my experience there are very few — if any — meetings of the principals committee at which the input of the military and the intelligence community is not vital. With an increasingly belligerent Russia, tensions in the South China Sea and a smoldering Middle East, it makes little sense to minimize the participation of the professionals leading and representing these two groups.


Next, he goes on to explain why Steve Bannon does not belong as a participant in what can be “heated” and “territorial” discussions:


“Putting aside for a moment Mr. Bannon’s troubling public positions, which are worrisome enough, institutionalizing his attendance threatens to politicize national security decision making.”


These discussions, he says, “seldom get political — nor should they.”


We have already seen 
concerns raised about Steve Bannon’s influence
 in the White House and his power struggles with Reince Priebus, including concerns raised by Madeleine Albright and others that it is Bannon who is calling the shots, and that Trump either does not know or perhaps does not even understand what it is he is putting his signature to.


Trump has shown that he is sensitive to these concerns. What he has not shown is that he genuinely understands how serious they are. Mullen observes that Bush excluded Karl Rove and that though Obama allowed David Axelrod’s attendance in early meetings, “he did not vote or otherwise engage in the discussion.”


Trump 
may or may not have known
 he was adding Bannon to the National Security Council when he signed the papers, but he is there now and now it is Donald Trump’s problem to resolve. 
















Ranting in tweets that he “calls his own shots” isn’t going to comfort anybody, least of all sober-minded individuals like Admiral Mullen who have not only talked the talk but walked the walk in our nation’s service while Trump was fleeing the draft and thinking he deserves a Medal of Honor for having sex.


Donald Trump is a businessman (and a not very successful one at that) and to politics, a dilettante, and Mullin rightly fears Bannon “will have a chilling effect on deliberations and, potentially, diminish the authority and the prerogatives to which Senate-confirmed cabinet officials are entitled.”


As Mullin stresses, they are accountable; Bannon is not, and “it results in a blurring of presidential responsibilities — Republican Party leader and commander in chief — that is unhealthy for the republic.”


It is to be hoped that Donald Trump will address these very real and serious concerns and in more than defensive, hysteria-ridden tweets. 


So far, he has given us no reason to feel confident that this will happen. As Mullen concludes, “partisan politics has no place at that table. And neither does Mr. Bannon.”


  
Admiral Mike Mullin Op-Ed
, 
Bannon on Security Council
, 
Donald Trump
, 
Mike Mullin Says Bannon Doesn’t Belong on Security Council
, 
national security council
, 
Steve Bannon
, 
Trump foreign policy
, 
Trump’s National Security Council




Follow Hrafnkell Haraldsson on Twitter


Admiral Mike Mullen Says Steve Bannon Does not Belong on National Security Council
 added by 
Hrafnkell Haraldsson
 on 
Mon, Feb 6th, 2017
View all posts by Hrafnkell Haraldsson →


















 


















Recent posts on PoliticusUSA
Democrats Hammer Reeling Republicans With 100 Nationwide Rallies To Save Health Care
An America You Can Be Proud Of As Tens of Thousands Storm Town Halls to Demand Answers
Opinion: Republican Judge Offers To Help Congress Impeach Trump
Cowardly House Republican Refuses To Hold His Town Hall If Anyone Shows Up To Protest
Ana Navarro Calls Out Trump’s Unwillingness to Offend Anti-Semitic Supporters
Muslim-Led Crowdfunding Campaign Triples Goal to Restore Vandalized Jewish Cemetery
‘Alt-right’ Media Troll Milo Yiannopoulos Resigns from Breitbart
Trump Attacks “So-Called Angry” Americans Worried About Losing Their Health Insurance
Judge Blocks Texas GOP From Denying Low-Income Citizens Access To Planned Parenthood
Constituents Flood Town Hall After GOP Congressman Holds Event 60 Miles Away












Subscribe To Our Daily Newsletter


















Email
*






Enter Email








Confirm Email










 
 






















This iframe contains the logic required to handle AJAX powered Gravity Forms.




Listen To The Politicus Podcast












 
PoliticusUSA






The latest from Politicus Sports












 










Privacy Policy































					 ©2008 - 2016, PoliticusUSA.com. All rights reserved.

				




Website Privacy & Cookies
































 














