







































































































































Home


National Security


Politics


Issues


Culture


Columns




















Washington Free Beacon


















National Security


Politics


Issues


Culture


Columns






Store


















































 














































































































































































































Asia Times: China on Edge as U.S. Carrier Strike Group Exercises in South China Sea


















WNBA Star Retires Early After Teammates Bully Her For Being Heterosexual


















CEOs Urge Congress to Enact Tax Reform to Help Make U.S. Companies Competitive






















Sanitation Crews Search for Dead Bodies Amid Piles of Pipeline Protester Trash














Share






Tweet






Email






The protest camp near Cannon Ball, North Dakota still has an estimated 2000 people who oppose the Dakota Access Pipeline / AP






















BY: 
 
Lachlan Markay
 
Follow @lachlan


February 7, 2017 9:43 am


Authorities in North Dakota are working to prevent an environmental catastrophe caused by the massive amounts of trash left behind by anti-oil pipeline protesters, local media report.


State and tribal sanitation crews are rushing to remove piles of waste and debris left over from the protests against the Dakota Access Pipeline before weather warms and the mountains of trash turn toxic.


According to cleaning crews, they're worried they might even find dead bodies among the piles of refuse that now pollute areas where anti-pipeline protesters camped out for months.


"It's estimated it will take 250 trucks filled with litter to clear the camp," according to a 
local NBC affiliate
. Once the spring thaw comes, the area could be at risk of major environmental damage. "In a month, all this trash could become toxic."


"We are looking for, as I said, anything illegal, anything that might be used to, I guess, harm our officers during a protest," says Jay Gruebele, Morton County Sheriff's Office Captain.


Authorities are also searching through the piles for evidence they hope they don't find.


"As bad as it sounds, we're looking for people that may have died and could be wrapped up in a canvas or a tarp or tent," says Gruebele.



			This entry was posted in 
Issues
. Bookmark the 
permalink
.						










Share






Tweet






Email


















































 




Lachlan Markay
   
Email 
 | 
Full Bio
 | 
RSS
Lachlan Markay is a staff writer for the Washington Free Beacon. He comes to the Beacon from the Heritage Foundation, where he was the conservative think tank's first investigative reporter. He graduated from Hamilton College in 2009, and currently lives in Washington, D.C. His Twitter handle is @
lachlan
. His email address is markay@freebeacon.com.




Follow @lachlan


























 


 


Today’s
 
STORIES
 




IRGC Commander: Iran Ready to Give U.S. ‘Slap in the Face’








Pennsylvania School Sees Improvement After Dropping Michelle Obama’s Lunch Program








Feds Paid $1 Billion in Social Security Benefits to Individuals Without a SSN








Iran Renews Destructive Cyber Attacks on Saudi Arabia








Left-Wing Front Groups Make Anti-Trump Money Untraceable








French Pres. Candidate Walks Away From Meeting After She’s ‘Urged’ to Wear Headscarf by Muslim Leader








The Best From Gen. H.R. McMaster








CNN Staffers Intently Focused on Bull-Chase in Queens








Government Watchdog Group Calls For Investigation Into Democratic FEC Official








Police Dept. Cancels ‘High-Five Friday’ at Schools Because Some Students May Be ‘Uncomfortable’








Former Aetna CEO Says Obamacare Was Flawed and Exchanges are Unsustainable








Runaway Queens Bull Dies Mysteriously




 






















Washington Free Beacon










About Us


Masthead


Tips


 




Terms of Use


Privacy Policy


Topics


Editor’s Blog


 














































































©2017 All Rights Reserved | 
Site Map






 


