



















































The Latest


Politics




U.S.




Election






World






Opinion


Entertainment


What Else Is Happening




















































The Latest


Politics




U.S.




Election






World






Opinion


Entertainment


What Else Is Happening










































Politics
U.S.


Pence breaks Senate tie to confirm DeVos as education secretary




posted by 
Reuters




0 comments








Betsy DeVos testifies before the Senate Health, Education and Labor Committee confirmation hearing to be next Secretary of Education on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., January 17, 2017. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas










President Donald Trump’s choice of billionaire Betsy DeVos to be education secretary was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, but only after Vice President Mike Pence was called in to break a tie that threatened to defeat her.


The tie-breaking vote, which Senate officials said was unprecedented to confirm a Cabinet nominee, followed an all-night debate on DeVos as Senate Democrats tried to pressure at least one more Republican to oppose her and defeat the nomination.


Only two Republicans joined the 46 Democrats and two independents in opposition to DeVos. Critics have called her unprepared to lead the Department of Education after a rocky Senate confirmation hearing.


Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer immediately derided the proceeding.


“This cabinet nom is so unqualified, so divisive, that @MikePenceVP had to drive down Pennsylvania Ave to cast the deciding vote,” he wrote in a Twitter post after the vote.


Under the U.S. Constitution, the vice president also serves as president of the Senate, with the power to cast votes only when there are ties on nominations or legislation.


Republican Trump tweeted his congratulations to the nominee and Pence praised her. “Today’s vote to confirm Education Secretary @BetsyDeVos was a vote for every child having a chance at a world-class education,” the vice president wrote in a Twitter post.


Ultimately, only Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska joined the Democrats and two independents in opposition to DeVos. That left 50 Republicans supporting her in the 100-member chamber.


Historically, Cabinet nominees with weak support in the Senate ask the president to withdraw their nomination, which DeVos did not do.


DeVos is married to the heir and former chief executive of Amway, which sells household and personal care items. She is also the daughter of the founders of Prince Corp, a Michigan car parts supplier, and sister of Erik Prince, the founder of the security company formerly known as Blackwater USA, now called Academi.


As Monday night’s debate wound down, Schumer said of DeVos: “She disdains public education where 90 percent of our students are.”


Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, urging her confirmation, said it was time to “end the unprecedented delay by Democrats” on the Cabinet nominations by Trump, who took office on Jan. 20.


DeVos has been an advocate of charter schools, which operate independently of school districts and frequently are run by corporations. Democrats are concerned she will promote charter schools in a way that would undercut public schools, which have long been the anchor of the U.S. education system.


Teachers unions, a major constituency for the Democratic Party, roundly opposed DeVos, a philanthropist and investor, to lead the department, which sets education policy for younger children and universities and also administers a college financial aid program of $1 trillion.


The Consumer Federation of America urged DeVos to confront the problem of millions of Americans in default on student loans. “The new secretary needs to put borrowers and taxpayers first, rather than focusing on helping the student loan and for-profit college industries pump up their profits,” it said.


Following the cliffhanger vote on DeVos, the Senate promptly limited debate on Trump’s choice of Senator Jeff Sessions to be attorney general. A final vote on Sessions’ nomination is expected sometime this week.


Also up for Senate debate soon are Trump’s nominations of Representative Tom Price to be secretary of Health and Human Services and ex-banker Steve Mnuchin to be Treasury secretary.


All three face opposition from Senate Democrats.




Also facing a rough ride is Trump’s choice of Andrew Puzder to be secretary of labor. Puzder, the chief executive of CKE Restaurants Inc, has admitted to employing an undocumented immigrant as a house cleaner.


(Additional reporting by Lisa Lambert, Sarah Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Editing by Frances Kerry and Jonathan Oatis)


Read the original post from Reuters 
here
.


Copyright 2017. Thomson Reuters. 
Click
 for Restrictions.


Pence breaks Senate tie to confirm DeVos as education secretary
 was last modified: 
 
 by 
Reuters




 














Tags:
agriculture secretary
, 
betsy devos
, 
billionaire
, 
department of education
, 
education secretary
, 
mike pence
, 
pence
, 
republican
, 
republicans
, 
secretary of education
, 
unprecedented
, 
vice president












Previous Post








Plot Twist: Judge Weighing Trump’s Refugee Ban Was Also a Refugee












Next Post








Trump re Texas State Senator: ‘We’ll Destroy His Career’












You may also like






Protesters march during a Black Live Matter rally in downtown Dallas on Thursday, July 7, 2016. Multiple media outlets report that shots were fired later Thursday during the protest over two recent fatal police shootings of black men. (Smiley N. Pool/The Dallas Morning News via AP)


The Latest: Texas Gov. Abbott responds to shooting










Understanding the Increasingly Tangled Web of Ties Between the Trump Camp and Russia








United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein attends the 33rd session of the Human Rights Council at the U.N. European headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, September 13, 2016. REUTERS/Denis Balibouse



U.N. rights chief condemns Syria abuses under Assad’s rule










On Election Day Interviews, Donald Trump Hints He May Not Accept Results










Hillary and Bill Clinton to Attend Trump’s Inauguration








 
Photo: CBS News


Panetta Says Trump not Receiving Daily Intelligence Briefings, Priebus Agrees










Cafe Staff Suspected of Working With Assailants in Dhaka Attack








Former President Bill Clinton speaks to a crowd at the Dow Event Center in Saginaw, Mich. while campaigning for his wife, presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, on Monday,, Oct. 3, 2016. (Jeff Schrier/The Saginaw News via AP)


After riff, Bill Clinton reaffirms health-care law support








Photo: Reuters


Democrats Unite to Block Betsy DeVos Confirmation








 
Photo: ABC News


Why Trump Would Almost Certainly Be Violating the Constitution If He Continues to Own His Businesses










 


Leave a Comment 
Cancel Reply
 








 




 
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
 
Notify me of new posts by email.
 




 






















 


 
 
Recent Articles
 




Bill Maher Says He’s Responsible for Milo Yiannopoulos Downfall








Seth Meyers: Trump Went to Museum of African American History to Find Obama’s Birth Certificate








Britain’s top court backs government on immigration income test








Angry Kentucky Voter Slams Mitch McConnell in Epic Lesson on Healthcare & Jobs








Trump Adviser Stephen Miller Admits ‘Revised’ Travel Ban Will Look a Lot Like Old One








 
Categories
The Latest


Politics


Entertainment


What Else is Happening


Opinion


Archives
 
Archives




Select Month


 February 2017 


 January 2017 


 December 2016 


 November 2016 


 October 2016 


 September 2016 


 August 2016 


 July 2016 


 June 2016 




Share




Related posts:






‘Hamilton’ member gives Pence earful. Trump: “Apologize!”




Jerry Fallwell Jr. Says Trump Offered Him Cabinet Post




GOP Governors Urging Congress to Reconsider Obamacare Repeal




Obamacare Supporters Gather in Rallies Across the Country to Protest Repeal




Pageantry, protests to mark start of Trump’s presidency




Schumer to Vote Against More Top Trump Cabinet Picks
























Contact us
About Us


Contact Us








Social
View https://www.facebook.com/CitizenSlant-1125457530809615/?fref=ts’s profile on Facebook
View https://twitter.com/CitizenSlant’s profile on Twitter






Join Our Mailing List
 




















Your Email (required)


 


















		
			Copyright @ 2016 Citizen Slant. All Rights Reserved.
		
		
			




















































