







Skip to main content








Search form




Search 
















For Grant Seekers
 | 
Blog 
| 
Email Sign Up
 | 
Contact Us


















We spark change








Facebook


Twitter


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube








Give to Brooklyn




 


Main menu


About Us
What We Do
Vision & Values
Our Racial Justice Lens
What is a Community Foundation?
Brooklyn Facts
Board and Staff
Governance & Financials
Career Opportunities
Contact Us
For Donors
Ways to Give
The Community Fund
Establish a Fund
Manage Your Fund
Create a Bequest
Meet Our Donors
Professional Advisor Network
Give to a Memorial or Tribute Fund
Programs & Impact
For Grant Seekers
Our Strategy
Our Grants
Youth
Neighborhoods
Nonprofits
Special Initiatives
Past Initiatives
Brooklyn Accelerator
Spark Prize for Brooklyn Nonprofits
E-News for Nonprofits
Nonprofit Partners Directory
Incubator Project
Community Space for Rent
Training and Support
Neighborhood Reports
News
Stay Informed
Insights to Impact Blog
Announcements
In the News
E-News
Our Publications
Events
Media Kit
Search




























You are here
Home
 › 
Brooklyn Community Foundation Deploys $100,000 for ‘Immediate Response’ Grants to Immigrant Nonprofits



                    Brooklyn Community Foundation Deploys $100,000 for ‘Immediate Response’ Grants to Immigrant Nonprofits                  














February 7, 2017
Foundation Launches New “Action Fund” to Support Civil Resistance



	(Brooklyn, NY) – Today, Brooklyn Community Foundation announces nearly $100,000 in grants to support the critical response of 8 local nonprofits to the immediate challenges triggered by the Trump Administration’s Executive Order banning travelers from 7 Muslim-majority countries as well as new refugee admissions. The grants are deployed through the Foundation’s recently launched 
Immigrant Rights Fund
.


These 
Immediate Response
 grants support Brooklyn’s immigrant-led organizations that are defending the liberties of immigrant individuals and families as well as promoting the safety and strength of our communities.


“In times like these, we are prouder than ever to call Brooklyn home. This Executive Order on immigration has been met with overwhelming resistance across Brooklyn’s communities, thanks in large part to the powerful organizing work of immigrant-led nonprofits,” said 
Brooklyn Community Foundation President and CEO Cecilia Clarke
. “Through our Immigrant Rights Fund, we are supporting a diverse cohort of organizations who are working together at the intersection of immigrant rights, religious liberty, racial justice, and gender equality. We call on all Brooklynites to stand with our immigrant communities today, to preserve our borough’s strength and inclusiveness.”


Immigrant Rights Fund Immediate Response Grants
 (February 2017)




New York Immigrant Coalition
 ($25,000) for city-wide collaboration and the “This is Our New York” 6-point response plan, including outreach and education, legal services, combating hate crimes, advocacy and organizing, capacity building, and media campaigns

		 


Arab American Association of New York
 ($10,000) for advocacy and organizing in Brooklyn’s Muslims communities

		 


Arab American Family Support Center
 ($10,000) for outreach, social services, and leadership development in Brooklyn’s Muslims communities, particularly for Yemeni residents

		 


Black Alliance for Just Immigration
 ($10,000) for organizing and legal clinics and language support of Black Muslim immigrants

		 


Brooklyn Defender Services
 ($10,000) for rapid legal defense for affected individuals  

		 


DRUM, Desis Rising up and Moving
 ($10,000) for advocacy, organizing, and the “Hate Free Zone” initiative launched in Kensington, Brooklyn

		 


Make the Road New York
 ($10,000) for advocacy and organizing across immigrant populations and support for multi-step “Our Plan to Resist Trump” initiative

		 


Jews for Racial and Economic Justice
 ($10,000) for ally-building and trainings to create connections between anti-Islamophobia and anti-Semitism organizing

		 




Ongoing Immigrant Rights Funding Opportunities 


The Foundation is also announcing the establishment of an 
Action Fund
 to support ongoing civil resistance and organizing efforts—including community-building, public education, action planning, and event logistics—with grants up to $2,500.


For the duration of 2017, the Foundation will also be accepting letters of inquiry for 
Sustained Response
 grants on a rolling basis from immigrant-serving organizations to support organizing, mental health services, community safety, and legal services. These grants, awarded quarterly, will range from $10,000 to $25,000.


Details on the Action Fund and Sustained Response grants are provided at 
www.bcfny.org/apply
.

	 


Upcoming Event – “Defending Immigrant Rights” Panel at the Brooklyn Museum


On Thursday, February 9th from 6:30-8PM, Brooklyn Community Foundation invites the public to the Brooklyn Museum for 
“Defending Immigrant Rights: A Brooklyn Call to Action,”
 featuring a conversation with nonprofit leaders working on the frontlines of the fight for immigrant rights. Presented in partnership with the Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art, the panel will discuss the Executive Order’s impact on Brooklynites, as well as specific local resistance strategies and how allies can help.


The panel will include Linda Sarsour of the Arab American Association of New York, Lisa Schreibersdorf of Brooklyn Defender Services, Carl Lipscombe of Black Alliance for Just Immigration, Murad Awawdeh of The New York Immigration Coalition, and Nayim Islam of DRUM - Desis Rising Up and Moving. Kavita Pawria-Sanchez, Assistant Commissioner at the Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs, will provide remarks and Brooklyn Community Foundation President and CEO Cecilia Clarke will moderate. Event details at 
http://www.bcfny.org/news/events/defending-immigrant-rights-brooklyn-call-action
.

	 


About the Immigrant Rights Fund


Brooklyn Community Foundation created its Immigrant Rights Fund in late 2016 with the goal of deploying at least $1 million over the next four years to support the immediate and long-term needs of immigrant communities affected by exclusionary and destabilizing government policy changes, while strengthening collaboration among immigrant-serving nonprofits in the borough. So far, the Foundation has raised $700,000 for the Fund, and welcomes further contributions at 
www.bcfny.org/donate
.


The Trump Administration’s adverse and restrictive position on immigration poses a substantial threat to Brooklyn’s economic strength as well as the stability of families and communities. Brooklyn is home to nearly 950,000 foreign-born residents—nearly 40% of the borough’s population—and almost half of all Brooklyn businesses are immigrant-owned. There are upwards of 300,000 Muslims in Brooklyn. Arab immigrants are one of the fastest growing immigrant groups in New York City. Recent figures indicate that over 40% of new Arab immigrants in New York City have settled in Brooklyn neighborhoods.


The Foundation has created similar rapid-response funds in the wake of Superstorm Sandy in 2012 (Brooklyn Recovery Fund) and the Haiti Earthquake in 2010 (NYC Haitian Community Hope and Healing Fund). Additionally, the Foundation distributed more than $400,000 in grants to immigrant-led organizations in the borough through its Invest in Youth initiative in 2016. This month it will award Make the Road New York with its inaugural $100,000 Spark Prize at a celebratory breakfast on February 16th.


###


About Brooklyn Community Foundation


Brooklyn Community Foundation is on a mission to spark lasting social change, mobilizing people, capital, and expertise for a fair and just Brooklyn. It is the first and only public foundation solely dedicated to Brooklyn’s charitable community, working in partnership with generous donors and community leaders to bolster vital nonprofits, strengthen neighborhoods, increase opportunities for youth, and advance racial equity. Since its founding in 2009, the Foundation and its donors have provided over $25 million in grants to more than 300 nonprofits in Brooklyn and beyond. Learn more at 
www.BrooklynCommunityFoundation.org
. 












 


















Stay Informed
Insights to Impact Blog
Announcements
In the News
E-News
Our Publications
Events
Media Kit


















Home


Contact Us


Privacy Policy




Brooklyn Community Foundation | 
info@BrooklynCommunityFoundation.org​

	1000 Dean Street, Suite 307, Brooklyn, NY 11238 | 718.480.7500 | Fax 718.722.5757






© Brooklyn Community Foundation 2016


All Rights Reserved




Facebook


Twitter


LinkedIn


Instagram


YouTube






 










