MPW
Search
Search
Subscribe
World's Most Admired Companies
Apple Bought iCloud.net and Shut Down a Social Network
Safety Recalls
Whirlpool Admits Its Tumble Dryers Are a Fire Risk
mining
These Mining Stocks Are Climbing as the Economy Rebounds
PointCloud
Leaked Photos Appear to Reveal Samsung Galaxy S8
Most Powerful Women
Kellyanne Conway Has Claimed There’s Been a ‘Bowling Green Massacre’ More than Once
Mahita Gajanan
Feb 06, 2017
Kellyanne Conway claimed that she 
"misspoke one word"
 and made an "honest mistake" when she referred to the 
"Bowling Green massacre,"
 a nonexistent terrorist attack, while defending President Donald Trump's 
executive order on immigration
 during an interview with MSNBC's Chris Matthews.
But Conway's conversation with Matthews on Feb. 3 was not the first time she talked about the made up attack, according to 
Cosmopolitan
. 
The magazine revealed on Monday that the counselor to the President mentioned the "Bowling Green massacre" during a Jan. 29 interview while 
discussing
 enhanced security in the U.S. after two men were arrested for plotting to send money and weapons to Al-Qaida in Iraq in 2011. The men, Waad Ramadan Alwin and Mohanad Shareef Hammadi, entered the U.S. in 2009 as refugees and settled in Bowling Green.
While speaking with 
Cosmopolitan
, Conway claimed President Barack Obama ordered a temporary "ban on Iraqi refugees" after the "Bowling Green massacre." Her quotes were not used in two stories published about her.
According to 
Cosmopolitan
, Conway said of Obama: "He did, it’s a fact. Why did he do that? He did that for exactly the same reasons. He did that because two Iraqi nationals came to this country, joined ISIS, traveled back to the Middle East to get trained and refine their terrorism skills, and come back here, and were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green massacre of taking innocent soldiers' lives away."
Conway's comments to both MSNBC and 
Cosmopolitan
 are misleading. The Obama administration did not announce a formal ban on Iraqi refugees in 2011, although there was an enhanced security process for delaying visa applications and the U.S. saw a steep decline of refugees at the time.
News networks have 
debated
 in recent weeks about whether Conway should be invited on cable programs because of this kind of misinformation. On Sunday, CNN passed on having her appear on 
State of the Union
.
. 
@KellyannePolls
 was offered to SOTU on Sunday by the White House. We passed. Those are the facts.
- CNN Communications (@CNNPR) 
February 6, 2017
Conway, however, denies that CNN decided not to have her on, 
claiming
 she had family obligations.
Customer Service
Site Map
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms of Use
Your California Privacy Rights
Careers
© 2017 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
All products and services featured are based solely on editorial selection. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. 
Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by 
Interactive Data
. ETF and Mutual Fund data provided by 
Morningstar
, Inc. Dow Jones Terms & Conditions: 
http://www.djindexes.com/mdsidx/html/tandc/indexestandcs.html
. S&P; Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. 
Terms & Conditions
. Powered and implemented by 
Interactive Data Managed Solutions
SUBSCRIBE
Search
Home
Tech
Leadership
Venture
Fortune Insiders
Most Powerful Women
Automotive
Careers
Energy & Environment
Executive Travel
Finance
Health
TIME Health
International
Retail
Markets
Magazine
Newsletters
Videos
Fortune Conferences
Follow FORTUNE
SHARE
Share on Facebook
Post on Twitter
Email this story
Share on Reddit
Share on Pinterest
Share on LinkedIn
