























Pittsburgh




Radio.com


CBS Local Sports


CBS Sports Radio


Tailgate Fan


Atlanta


Baltimore


Boston


Chicago


Cleveland


Connecticut


Dallas


Denver


Detroit


Houston


Las Vegas


Los Angeles


Miami


Minnesota


New York


Philadelphia


Sacramento


San Francisco


Seattle


St Louis


Tampa


Washington






SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS
























Sponsored By






























KDKA-TV
Welcome to KDKA-TV on CBSPittsburgh.com! KDKA-TV is joining forces with the most trusted local CBS RADIO stations in Pittsburgh to give you the best Pittsburgh has to offer. KDKA-TV is part of CBS Television Stations, a division of CBS Corp. and one of the largest network-owned station groups in the country. Click here for KDKA [...]
NewsRadio 1020 KDKA
Welcome to NEWSRADIO 1020 KDKA on CBSPittsburgh.com! We appreciate your interest in the world’s first commercial radio station! Join us on-air or online for Pittsburgh’s up-to-the-minute news talk, weather and traffic reports. Start your day with Larry Richert, John Shumway, Paul Rasmussen anchoring news and Kathy Berggren’s traffic reports on The KDKA Morning News, 5-9 [...]
93-7 The Fan
Welcome to 93-7 The Fan on CBSPittsburgh.com! Sportsradio 93-7 The Fan is Pittsburgh’s broadcast home for Pirates Baseball as well as Pitt Football and Men’s Basketball. The Fan also features live and local programming, 7-days a week with the ‘Burgh’s most entertaining roster of sports personalities. Sportsradio 93-7 The Fan, Pittsburgh’s Hometown Sports Station! Send [...]
CW Pittsburgh






Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
























Home
 




News
 






All News






Local
Consumer News
Politics
Business
HealthWatch
Entertainment
Photo Galleries
Audio
Heard On KDKA
 








Latest Headlines






Puppy Abandoned At Animal Shelter With 2 Broken Legs To Undergo Surgery
Police are investigating after a puppy with two broken legs was dropped off at an animal shelter in Pittsburgh.
Amazon Offers Discount As Appreciation For Being Named Most Reputable Company
Amazon was recently ranked the most reputable company in the United States. 
 








More News






KDKA-TV News Morning
News
 










Weather
 
































FULL FORECAST












More Weather






Local Radar and Maps
Closings/Delays
KDKA Weather App
Submit Weather Photos
Weather Watchers
Weather Stories
 








Weather Headlines






Downside To Unusually Warm Winter Weather? Confused Plants
The warm weather the Pittsburgh area is seeing is the perfect antidote to cabin fever. Seems like there's no downside. But is there?
La Niña May Be To Blame For Unseasonably Warm Winter
When you see the polar ice cap melting and temperatures this warm in Pittsburgh in February, how can you not think global warming.
 








Latest Videos






Weather Videos
 










Sports
 






All Sports






Latest
Steelers
Penguins
Pirates
Pitt
Riverhounds
HS
Audio
Scores
ODDS
Golf
 








Latest Headlines






Pirates' Kang Appears In Court To Face Drunk Driving Charge
Pirates infielder Jung Ho Kang appeared in a Korean court Wednesday as judges heard arguments over charges that he fled the scene after slamming a car into a guardrail while driving under the influence of alcohol.
Crosby's Power-Play Goal Lifts Penguins Past Canes 3-1
The Penguins beat the Carolina Hurricanes 3-1 on Tuesday night.
 








More Sports






#1 Cochran Sports Showdown Videos
Sports Video
 










Traffic
 




Video
 






News Videos
Weather Videos
Sports Videos
Pittsburgh Today Live Video
Your Pittsburgh Video
Get Marty
 










Audio
 






The Fan Morning Show
Cook and Poni
Starkey & Mueller
Inside Story with Marty Griffin
Mike Pintek
KDKA Afternoon News
 










E.S.P.
 






Eat






Best Bagels And Lox In Pittsburgh
If you’re craving a fresh-baked bagel with lox, here are the five best places in Pittsburgh to enjoy breakfast or brunch.
How To Keep Your Family Safe From Foodborne Illness
Want to keep your family safe from foodborne illness? Try these tips from Dr. Hank Parker, author of "Containment."
 








See






Best Places To See Indie Rock In Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh is known for its entertainment scene thanks to its large number of bars, lounges and music venues that eagerly welcome the city and country’s best bands and musicians.
Best Comedy Shows Coming To Pittsburgh In Spring 2017
No matter your sense of humor, there’s a show for you. Get your tickets early to these must-see comedy shows making a stop in Pittsburgh this spring.
 








Play






Best Flower Shops In Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh has plenty of florists making beautiful designs, whether you're looking for a personal touch to send to a fellow Steelers fan or beautiful designs for your wedding.
Winter Weather: How To Survive In Hazardous Conditions
Want to know how to keep you and your family safe in the event of dangerous winter weather? Former NAVY SEAL Clinton Emerson shares his survival tips.
 










Contests
 




More
 






Your Home






New Federal Rule Bans Smoking In Public Housing
Smoking will be prohibited in public housing developments nationwide under a final rule announced Wednesday by the Obama administration.
Private Home Serves As Unique Polling Place In Beechview
Mixed in with schools, churches, public buildings, some Beechview residents voted at a polling place in a private home.
 








Travel






How To Quell Wanderlust Between Trips
Five tips to help cope with the strong desire to get away from it all in advance of your next big trip
5 Best Ski Lodges In The U.S.
A look at five of the very best ski lodges in the United States.
 








More






Events
Deals
 










 






 












EAGLE CAM:
 
Hays Nest
 | 
Harmar Nest
 | 
Wind Topples Tree & Nest
 | 
New Home
 | 
New Egg Confirmed In Nest
FISH FRY GUIDE:
Submit Your Organization
2017 Guide
 








Pence Breaks Senate Tie To Confirm DeVos As Education Secretary


February 7, 2017 4:47 AM


By Lisa Washington






Filed Under:
 
Betsy DeVos
, 
Lisa Washington
, 
Sen. Bob Casey
, 
Sen. Pat Toomey
, 
Senate
































WASHINGTON (KDKA/AP) – The Senate has confirmed school choice activist Betsy DeVos as Education secretary, with Vice President Mike Pence breaking a 50-50 tie.


The Senate historian says it was the first time a vice president had to break a tie on a Cabinet nomination.


Two Republicans joined Democrats Tuesday to vote to derail DeVos’ nomination. Democrats cited her lack of public school experience and financial interests in organizations pushing charter schools. DeVos has said she would divest herself from those organizations.


Republicans Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska fear that DeVos’ focus on charter schools will undermine remote public schools in their states.


In an earlier tweet, President Donald Trump wrote “Betsy DeVos is a reformer, and she is going to be a great Education Sec. for our kids!”


DeVos is a wealthy GOP donor who has devoted herself to boosting alternatives to public education, sparking concerns among educators that she won’t be a strong champion for the nation’s public school systems.


Sen. Bob Casey of Pennsylvania spent approximately 45 minutes starting at 12 midnight, explaining why he would not vote in favor of DeVos’ nomination.


“The principal reason for that are her views on public education, and what I view as her lack of commitment to public education and what that would mean for the country.”


Sen. Casey said his office has been flooded with people who oppose DeVos’ nomination.


“I’ve heard from people across my state, urban and rural, suburban, democrats, republicans – all kinds of people who have spoken with one voice against this nomination.”


Earlier, Sen. Casey addressed demonstrators outside the U.S. Capitol.




Thank you all for your support. I’ll be up all night working to get “just one more” republican to vote against Betsy DeVos. 
pic.twitter.com/SUWHrc5zZM


— Senator Bob Casey (@SenBobCasey) 
February 7, 2017


Last week, Sen. Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania released a statement in which he said he would vote to confirm DeVos.


“I am pleased to vote to confirm Betsy DeVos as Secretary of Education,” said Sen. Toomey. “Betsy DeVos has spent nearly three decades of her life, tens of millions of dollars, and considerable personal energy toward one noble goal: ensuring that poor children trapped in failing schools have the same opportunities that wealthy and middle class kids already have.




Meanwhile, a Philadelphia teacher, who opposes the confirmation of DeVos, has raised more than $70,000 for education charities in the state.


The teacher’s goal was to raise the same amount of money the DeVos family fund donated to Sen. Toomey’s re-election campaign.


DeVos’ nomination is controversial because of her support for charter schools and tuition vouchers using public funds.


“I started a fundraising campaign called Buy Sen. Toomey’s vote,” Katherine Fritz said. “I’m not planning to actually bribe the senator. What I’m doing is raising money for a series of education charities in Philadelphia and in Pennsylvania that benefit our area school children, but I’m doing so in a satirical, broad, funny way.”


Fritz set up a Go Fund Me account with a goal of raising $55,800, which is the amount the DeVos family fund donated to Sen. Toomey’s re-election campaign.


In just one day, more than $38,000 had been donated.


The senator reacted to the news on a Philadelphia radio show last week.


“(Laughs). Oh, that’s funny. Listen, I give her credit for the humor value,” Sen. Toomey said.


Fritz says there is a serious side to her satire


“Maybe we should be paying more attention to where our money is going with our politics,” she said.


Receiving campaign contributions from nominees and their organizations is quite common on both sides or the aisle.


Former president Barack Obama’s treasury, commerce and EPA secretaries all donated cash toward his re-election campaign.


Join The Conversation On The KDKA Facebook Page


Stay Up To Date, Follow KDKA On Twitter


(TM and © Copyright 2017 CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2017 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.)




 






Lisa Washington
Lisa Washington joined KDKA TV in May of 2015. Previously, she covered breaking news and developing stories at our sister station, KPIX CBS 5, in San Francisco.  

Lisa brings more than a decade of experience in anchoring and reporting local news...
More from
 
Lisa Washington
Comments












Comments are closed.












Listen Live
Follow Us On
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Sign Up for Newsletters
 












 








More From CBS Pittsburgh






New Podcast Network
Get The All New CBS Local App
Get KDKA Text Alerts
 






 




Follow Us


Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
 










News
Local


Consumer News


Politics


Business


HealthWatch


Entertainment


Photo Galleries


Sports
Steelers


Penguins


Pirates


Panthers


High School


Eat.See.Play
Eat


See


Play


Watch + Listen
Seen On KDKA 2


Heard on The Fan


Video on Demand


Other
Weather


Traffic


School Closings


Local Offers


Only CBS


Corporate
About Us


Advertise


Business Development


Contact


Mobile


Connect


CBS Television Public File


CBS Radio Public File


 










©2017 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.



						Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 






By viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our 
Video Services Policy


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Your California Privacy Rights


Mobile User Agreement


Ad Choices


EEO Reports


 




















Listen Live




 








AM/FM Stations




100.7 StarPittsburgh


Y108


93.7 The Fan


KDKA 1020






Featured Shows & Multimedia




Play.It


CBS Sports Radio


Radio.com








Advertise On Our Streams












