























Denver




Radio.com


CBS Local Sports


CBS Sports Radio


Tailgate Fan


Atlanta


Baltimore


Boston


Chicago


Cleveland


Connecticut


Dallas


Detroit


Houston


Las Vegas


Los Angeles


Miami


Minnesota


New York


Philadelphia


Pittsburgh


Sacramento


San Francisco


Seattle


St Louis


Tampa


Washington






SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS
























Sponsored By






























CBS4
Contact CBS4 | Employment | Community | Closed Captioning | History






Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
























Home
 




News
 






All News






Local
Investigates
Politics
Business
Entertainment
Autos
Links & Info
HealthWatch
News Team
 








Latest Headlines






Crews Quickly Extinguish Small Brush Fire In Aurora
Firefighters quickly extinguished a small brush fire in Aurora late Tuesday night.
Bill To Create Rules For Pot Clubs Postponed
A bill that would create rules and regulations for securing a pot club license has been postponed at the state Capitol. 
Camper Fire Spreads To 2 Homes
Flames from a burning camper spread to two homes in Broomfield early Wednesday morning. One person was injured in that fire.
 








News Photos






Great Sand Dunes In Winter
 










Sports
 






All Sports






Latest
Video
Broncos
Rockies
Nuggets
Avalanche
Rapids
DU
Scores
Odds
 








Featured Sports






Clavell, Colorado State Beat New Mexico 68-56
Gian Clavell scored 24 points and had an answer when Colorado State needed it as the Rams beat New Mexico 68-56 on Tuesday night.
Clavell Scores 24, CSU Wins 5th Straight Road Game
The Rams defeated New Mexico 68-56 in Albuquerque on Tuesday night.
 








Sports Photos






Denver Pioneers Men's Lacrosse Team
 








CBS4 Sports Video






CBS4 Sports Video
 










Weather
 
































FULL FORECAST












Weather Links






Latest CBS4 Forecast
Hiking Forecast
CBS4 Cams
Share Photos
Weather Watchers
School Closings
Local Radars
 








Latest From Colorado's Weather Center






Crews Quickly Extinguish Small Brush Fire In Aurora
Firefighters quickly extinguished a small brush fire in Aurora late Tuesday night.
Latest Forecast: Cold Front Set To Bring A Dramatic Change To Colorado
Wednesday will be the final day of what has been a very long stretch of dry and much warmer than normal weather.
 








Weather Photos






Great Sand Dunes In Winter
 










Traffic
 






Traffic






Traffic Map
Cams
Interstate 25 Stories
Interstate 70 Stories
I-70 Expansion
CBS4 Traffic Specialist
 










E.S.P
 






Eat






Boulder Restaurant Up For Prestigious James Beard Award
The James Beard Foundation has released the list of semifinalists for its annual restaurant and chef awards, and a Boulder restaurant plus three chefs from the Denver-Boulder area are in the running.
Best Bagels And Lox In Denver
Get the perfect bagel, smeared with cream cheese and topped with freshly smoked lox, at any of these great local hotspots.
 








See






Best Places To See Indie Rock In Denver
Check out Denver's rock scene at any of these awesome local music venues. Plenty of music, great drinks and room to dance is all you'll need.
'The Christians' Raises Questions About Faith
"The Christians" raises questions around faith and religion.
 








Play






Top Spots To Get Valentine's Day Gifts In Denver
Check out one of these stores and find a sexy and romantic gift or a sweet and sentimental gift. Whatever you choose, your Valentine is sure to love it.
Best Lingerie Boutiques In Denver For Valentine's Day Gifts
It's almost Valentine's Day, and if you're preparing a sexy evening, you'll need some lingerie. Find the perfect gift for that special date at one of the following lingerie boutiques.
 










Video
 






News
Weather
Sports
Health
Politics
CBSN
 










Contests
 






Contest






Denver Gymnastics Family 4-Pack Ticket Giveaway
Enter for the chance to win a DU Gymnastics Family 4-Pack! Winners will each receive four tickets to the University of Denver vs. Ohio State gymnastics meet on March 4, 2017 at 6:00pm at the Magness Arena.  
 










Photos
 






Photo Galleries






Great Sand Dunes In Winter
Fire Consumes Structure In Weld County
Denver Pioneers Men's Lacrosse Team
Snow Mountain Ranch
Valentine's Day Weddings
 








YouReport






Share Photos
 










More
 






Travel






How To Properly Clean And Store Luggage
A few tips to help keep your luggage looking as good as new
How To Quell Wanderlust Between Trips
Five tips to help cope with the strong desire to get away from it all in advance of your next big trip
5 Best Ski Lodges In The U.S.
A look at five of the very best ski lodges in the United States.
 








Events






Events
CBS4 Sponsored Events
 








TV Schedule






CBS4 Program Guide
 










 






 














Betsy DeVos Confirmed As Education Secreatary


February 7, 2017 10:33 AM






Filed Under:
 
Betsy DeVos










Betsy DeVos (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
























WASHINGTON (AP) — Charter school advocate Betsy DeVos won confirmation as U.S. Education secretary Tuesday by the slimmest of margins, pushed to approval only by the historic tie-breaking vote of Vice President Mike Pence.


Two Republicans, Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, joined Democrats in a marathon effort to derail the nomination of the wealthy Republican donor. The Senate historian said Pence’s vote was the first by a vice president to break a 50-50 tie on a Cabinet nomination.


Despite the win, DeVos emerged bruised from the highly divisive nomination fight. Opposed by half the Senate, she faced criticism, even ridicule for lack of experience and confusion during her confirmation hearing. At one point, she said some schools should have guns because of the threat of grizzly bears.








































And there has been scathing opposition from teachers unions and civil rights activists over her support of charter schools and her conservative religious ideology.


President Donald Trump accused Democrats of seeking to torpedo education progress. In a tweet before the vote, he wrote, “Betsy DeVos is a reformer, and she is going to be a great Education Sec. for our kids!” Pence tweeted later in the day that supporting DeVos was “a vote for every child having a chance at a world-class education.”


She now takes the helm of a department charged with implementing laws affecting the nation’s public schools with no direct experience with traditional public schools. Her opponents noted that she has no experience running public schools, nor has she attended one or sent her children to one.


She also will have to address several hot-button issues in higher education, such as rising tuition costs, growing student debt and the troubled for-profit colleges, many of which have closed down, leaving students with huge loans and without a good education or job prospects.


Close attention also will be paid to how DeVos deals with sexual assault and freedom of speech on campuses.


Ahead of Tuesday’s vote, emotions ran high as constituents jammed senators’ phone lines. Protesters gathered outside the Capitol, including one person in a grizzly bear costume to ridicule DeVos.


Betsy DeVos (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)


Democrats and labor unions vigorously fought the nomination, suggesting that DeVos would defund traditional public schools by diverting taxpayers’ money to charter and private institutions. They cited her financial interest in organizations pushing for charter schools, though she has said she will divest those interests.

Collins and Murkowski said they feared her focus on charter schools will undermine remote public schools in their states.


“President Trump’s swamp got a new billionaire today,” the Democratic National Committee said in a statement. “Millions of teachers, parents and students could not have made their opposition to Betsy DeVos’ confirmation any clearer — they do not want someone whose only education experience is dismantling public schools.”


DeVos supporters, however, saw her confirmation as an occasion to breathe new life into a troubled American school system and a chance to shift power from Washington to the local level.


“She has been a leader in the movement for public charter schools — the most successful reform of public education during the last 30 years,” said Sen. Lamar Alexander, the chairman of the Education Committee. “And she has worked tirelessly to help low-income children have more choices of better schools.”


DeVos has her work cut out.


“She will have to make it a priority to reach out to educators and education policy makers to reassure them that she is committed to working to improve education for all students including the vast majority who attend and will continue to attend traditional public schools,” said Martin West, associate professor of education at Harvard University. “My view is that she is committed to doing that.”


In addition to DeVos, Republicans hope to confirm a series of other divisive nominees this week: Alabama Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions as attorney general, GOP Rep. Tom Price of Georgia as health secretary and financier Steven Mnuchin as treasury secretary.


By MARIA DANILOVA, Associated Press


(© Copyright 2017 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.) 




 






Comments












One Comment










 
Kathleen Pearson
 
says:
 



			February 7, 2017 at 10:59 pm
 


CBS Denver, could you at least spell “Secretary” correctly?


Reply
 | 
			
Report comment
 | 
				








Leave a Reply 
Cancel reply
 








Enter your comment here...










Please log in using one of these methods to post your comment:




































 


 






Email 
(required)
 
(Address never made public)








Name 
(required)








Website






























 You are commenting using your Twitter account. 
( 
Log Out
 / 
Change
 )


























 You are commenting using your Facebook account. 
( 
Log Out
 / 
Change
 )


























 You are commenting using your Google+ account. 
( 
Log Out
 / 
Change
 )










Cancel


Connecting to %s


























 
















Listen Live
Follow Us On
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Sign Up for Newsletters
 














 










More From CBS Denver






late show with stephen colbert
Send A News Tip
 








 




Follow Us


Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
 










CBS4 News
News Section


CBS4 Investigates


Colorado & Denver News


Politics


Business


HealthWatch


CBS4 Sports
Latest Sports


Broncos


Nuggets


Avalanche


Rockies


Xfinity Monday Live


Scores


Weather
Weather Section


Latest CBS4 Forecast


School Closings


CBS4 Weather Watchers


CBS4 Weather App


Cams


Share Photos


Entertainment
TV Schedule


Eat.See.Play


Only CBS


Entertainment


Movie Listings


Travel


Event Listings


Corporate
CBS Local App


Advertise


Contact


Mobile


Business Development


Employment


CBS Television Public File


CBS4
Contact Us


News Tips


CBS4 News Team


Links & Info


Contests


Sponsored Events


Closed Captioning


 










©2017 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.



						Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 






By viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our 
Video Services Policy


Privacy Policy


Terms of Use


Your California Privacy Rights


Mobile User Agreement


Ad Choices


EEO Reports


 
























































































Listen Live




 








AM/FM Stations




CBS Radio News






Featured Shows & Multimedia




Play.It


CBS Sports Radio


Radio.com








Advertise On Our Streams














