SUBSCRIBE NOW
for home delivery
Home
News
Sports
Opinion
Entertainment
Obits
Kitsap Life
Business Journal
Insider
USA Today
Media
USA TODAY NETWORK
More
Home
News
Sports
Opinion
Entertainment
Obits
Kitsap Life
Business Journal
Insider
USA Today
Media
USA TODAY NETWORK
Firefly
Hi 
Already a subscriber?
Log in
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Subscribe Now
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
Activate your digital access.
Manage your account settings.
My Account
View the E-Newspaper
Manage your Newsletters
Log Out
Social
Follow
Search
Get the news
Log In or Subscribe to skip
Already a subscriber?
Log in
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Subscribe Now
Already a subscriber, but don't have a login?
Activate your digital access.

                            614
                        
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Facebook
Email
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Pinterest
North Kitsap affirms support for immigrant students
District recently reminded parents it won't discriminate because of national origin, religion, immigration status
Post to Facebook
North Kitsap affirms support for immigrant students District recently reminded parents it won't discriminate because of national origin, religion, immigration status  Check out this story on kitsapsun.com: http://www.kitsapsun.com/story/news/education/2017/02/06/north-kitsap-affirms-support-immigrant-students/97565542/

                    {#
                    

                    #}
                
Cancel
Send
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 

                                2
                            
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the 
Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Subscribe Today
Log In
Subscribed, but don't have a login?
Activate your digital access.
North Kitsap affirms support for immigrant students
 Chris Henry 
 , Kitsap Sun 

            6:37 p.m. PT Feb. 6, 2017
        

            
                614
            
        
CONNECT
TWEET
LINKEDIN

                
                    2
                
            
COMMENT
EMAIL
MORE
POULSBO — In light of President Donald Trump's get-tough policies on undocumented immigrants and travel ban on residents of seven predominantly Muslim countries, North Kitsap School District has issued a statement affirming its commitment "to supporting 
all
 of our students and their families, regardless of national origin, religion or immigration status."
The policy is not new for North Kitsap and is the standard for public schools nationwide, but recent national events have raised concern within the district about immigration issues and religious discrimination.
"We have staff and students that have additional anxiety with regards to both issues," Superintendent Patty Page said.
"Children have a constitutional right to equal access to education regardless of their immigration status or their parents’ status," Page and School Board President Beth Worthington wrote last week in an email to families. "The fundamental right to access public education is constitutionally protected and cannot be taken away by the president, the state or federal legislators."
Trump's executive order signed Jan. 27 suspended entry of refugees to the United States for 120 days, halted indefinitely entry of refugees from Syria and barred entry for three months to residents from the predominantly Muslim countries of Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen.
A federal judge in Washington state Friday 
ordered a halt to national enforcement
 of the ban, and Minnesota has joined the challenge. A federal appeals court Sunday denied Trump's appeal of the order 
while the case is being decided
.
Trump has promised to punish "sanctuary cities" that harbor undocumented immigrants. Although local law enforcement officials say they 
don't enforce federal immigration regulations
, Kitsap's immigrant community is on 
heightened alert
 given national events. The Kitsap Immigrant Assistance Center has been holding "know your rights" events and helping families establish “readiness plans,” which are shared with their children’s schools in the event that parents are deported and their offspring are left behind.
A spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security said concerns about possible raids on school property by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement are "unfounded." ICE's enforcement efforts are focused on individuals who pose a threat to public safety and border security, Lori K. Haley said, and ICE places limits on enforcement actions in and around so-called "sensitive" locations, including schools and places of worship.
ICE guidelines to its agents state "enforcement actions should not occur at, nor be focused on, sensitive locations unless exigent circumstances exist, such as imminent risk to human life."
As for whether ICE could subpoena students' records in criminal cases involving family members or students themselves, Page and other local district officials said schools are barred by federal privacy laws from sharing confidential information in student records, such as a student's address or ethnicity. ICE denied having any interest in student records, given its priority on undocumented immigrants with criminal records.
"I can’t imagine a scenario where there would be a nexus between that stated priority and the information contained in children’s school enrollment records," said Virginia Kice, western regional communications director for Homeland Security.
Kice said ICE has access to "a vast array of law enforcement databases that contain information on individuals’ outstanding warrants and conviction histories, including the records maintained by the National Crime Information Center."
North Kitsap, like other public school districts, does not ask about a child's immigration status. State and federal guidelines on the matter harken back to a 
landmark U.S. Supreme Court ruling in 1982
. The court ruled Texas could not deny a public education to foreign-born children who weren't "legally admitted" to the country. The court held that the policy violated the constitutional right of "equal protection" to all living under the jurisdiction of a state's laws.
The court said Texas failed to show that denying undocumented students an education furthered "substantial state interest." In short, creating an uneducated subclass would do more harm than good to society. The court also said children could not be held accountable for their parents' actions.
Because of the ruling, schools must not only assure equal access to education for students regardless of immigration status, they 
must avoid practices that would "chill" the right of access
 to school, according to the state's Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
In 2014, then-Secretary of Education Arne Duncan and then-Attorney General Eric Holder 
cited the Plyler vs. Doe case in updating guidelines
 about what documents districts could ask for when enrolling students. They stressed the need for flexibility on the part of districts in accepting documents from parents that show a child's age and proof he or she lives within district boundaries.
"We want to be sure every school leader understands the legal requirements under the Constitution and federal laws, and it is our hope that this update will address some of the misperceptions out there," Duncan said. "The message here is clear: Let all children who live in your district enroll in your public schools."
Tacoma Public Schools have 
taken the extra step of providing a "safe, private location"
 where students can get support with immigration questions, according to The News Tribune in Tacoma. North Kitsap has not had any formal conversations about special provisions for immigrant students, Page said. Nor has the district coordinated with other districts, immigration advocates, or city and county officials about providing sanctuary or support to undocumented students. Kitsap County and Bainbridge Island this week will consider resolutions to become "welcoming" jurisdictions.
"We will continue to honor all students and provide a safe environment for them," Page said.
No other Kitsap or North Mason districts have come out with public statements related to Trump's policies.
Central Kitsap School District, like North Kitsap, upholds students' rights to education 
regardless of immigrant status
, but like North Kitsap, the district doesn't embrace the concept of being a "sanctuary" for students who run afoul of immigration enforcement.
"CKSD helps all our families and we connect to them with community resources as needed," spokesman David Beil said. "We are a caring district, and we do everything we can for our families."
North Mason has taken no specific action yet but might discuss it at a board meeting, Superintendent Dana Rosenbach said. The district has held parent nights throughout the year featuring a variety of community-support services.
"A particular focus has been reaching out to our newcomer population, and providing education and support to help families feel safe and supported as part of our community," Rosenbach said.
The American Civil Liberties Union of Washington has not documented any recent cases of 
discrimination or harassment
 in Kitsap County against school children or their families related to immigration status or religion, ACLU spokesman Doug Honig said. Anyone with concerns can contact the ACLU at 206-624-2184.

            
                614
            
        
CONNECT
TWEET
LINKEDIN

                
                    2
                
            
COMMENT
EMAIL
MORE
Read or Share this story: http://www.kitsapsun.com/story/news/education/2017/02/06/north-kitsap-affirms-support-immigrant-students/97565542/
