





Skip to main content






















DONATE


SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTER










Search form




Search 












 


















Wednesday, February 22, 2017








Home


World


War & Peace


Economy


Climate


Rights


Solutions


U.S.


Canada


















 
Civil and Human Rights Coalition Responds to Historically Close Vote on DeVos Confirmation


 




 
0
 Comments
For Immediate Release


Tuesday, February 7, 2017 - 12:45pm
The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights
Contact: 
Scott Simpson, 
Simpson@civilrights.org
Civil and Human Rights Coalition Responds to Historically Close Vote on DeVos Confirmation


WASHINGTON - 
Wade Henderson, president and CEO of The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, issued the following statement following today’s historically close vote on the Betsy DeVos nomination for Secretary of Education:


“Betsy DeVos has never been a student, parent, supporter, or employee in a public school or school system in any capacity, and yet she is now tasked with ensuring our nation’s children have equal access to a quality education.  The fact that her confirmation vote was the first in American history to require a tie breaking vote by the Vice President speaks to the widespread concern about her qualifications raised by the civil rights community, concerned parents and educators from across the country.


We applaud all Senate Democrats and Republican Senators Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski for putting a commitment to enforcing our education and civil rights laws above party politics. 


The Department of Education has a legal obligation to protect the civil rights of all students, and we, along with our coalition partners, will be watching to ensure that Secretary DeVos fulfills that responsibility.  Our children are entitled to, and deserve, a quality education regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, disability, gender, gender identity, sexuality, first language, family income or immigration status. 


While a setback, this vote is not a defeat.  Working with partners at the federal, state and local level, we will hold this new Secretary accountable to faithfully executing our nation’s education and civil rights laws.  Our Constitution, economy, future and children deserve no less.”
###
The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights is a coalition charged by its diverse membership of more than 200 national organizations to promote and protect the civil and human rights of all persons in the United States. Through advocacy and outreach to targeted constituencies, The Leadership Conference works toward the goal of a more open and just society – an America as good as its ideals.


The Leadership Conference is a 501(c)(4) organization that engages in legislative advocacy.  It was founded in 1950 and has coordinated national lobbying efforts on behalf of every major civil rights law since 1957.
Organization Links


The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights
Share This Article






Related Articles










The Republican Bid to Kill the ACA Is a Trojan Horse














In National First, City Council Unanimously Passes Trump Impeachment Resolution














Do These 10 Things, And Trump Will Be Toast














"Forced Removal Isn't Just in History Books... It's Happening Tomorrow"












More in: 
Rights
, 
U.S.
, 
Betsy Devos
, 
Education
, 
Civil Rights
, 
Donald Trump






Top Comments






(Click to see more comments or to join the conversation)
















Today's Views










 
 


 
Kathy Kelly
 


 
Friendship in Defiance of War
 
 




 
 


 
Julie Chinitz
 


 
The Republican Bid to Kill the ACA Is a Trojan Horse
 
 




 
 


 
Bill Quigley
 


 
Ten Examples of Direct Resistance to Stop Government Raids
 
 




 
 


 
Michael Moore
 


 
Do These 10 Things, And Trump Will Be Toast
 
 




 
 


 
Les Leopold
 


 
The Constitutional Apocalypse
 
 




 
 


 
Ira Chernus
 


 
Why We Protest: A Message for Middle America
 
 




 
 


 
Tom Gallagher
 


 
The Stakes in the Race for Democratic National Committee Chair
 
 




 
 


 
Amanda Baran
 


 
Donald Trump’s War on Immigrant Women
 
 




 
 


 
Nnimmo Bassey
 


 
System Change Will Not Be Negotiated
 
 




 
 


 
Ben Manski
 


 
DHS Immigration Memo Underscores Urgent Need for National Guard Reform
 
 




 
 


 
John Boik
 


 
An Economy of Meaning – or Bust
 
 




 
 


 
Ralph Nader
 


 
Restricting People’s Use of Their Courts
 
 







    More Views  




 
















News That Matters




















 




Sorry, Mr. President, There's Nothing "So-Called" About These Angry Crowds
 








 




RESIST Day #34: What You Can Do Today
 








 




In National First, City Council Unanimously Passes Trump Impeachment Resolution
 








 




Reclaiming Statue of Liberty's Message, Activists Drop 'Refugees Welcome' Banner
 










 












 




Judge Stops Texas From Cutting Medicaid Funds for Planned Parenthood
 








 




"Forced Removal Isn't Just in History Books... It's Happening Tomorrow"
 








 




"Love That Doesn't Risk Isn't Love": Amid Immigration Chaos, Sanctuaries Flourish
 








 




Without One Mention of Climate Change, Scott Pruitt Greets EPA Employees
 








 




'Medicare for All' Only Way for Trump to Keep Healthcare Promises
 








 




Iowa Bill Would Force Universities to Hire Right-Wing Professors
 













    More News  




 






Further










 
Yearning/ Dying To Breathe Free
 


 
 


 
A group of self-described "everyday people" hung a massive banner across the foot of Lady Liberty Tuesday declaring "Refugees Welcome" - an act and sentiment, immeasurably ironically, radical enough in these dystopian times that park officials are now seeking the "suspects." The day before, meanwhile, the bodies of at least 74 refugees trying to reach Europe washed up on the Libyan shore; each, critics say, is "a testament to our indifference."
 


 
Read More...
 
 







    More Further  




 
















Sign Up for Newsletter












 










 
















Connect With Us 
























About Common Dreams


Our Mission:
To inform. To inspire.
To ignite change for the common good.
Common Dreams has been providing breaking news & views for the progressive community since 1997. We are independent, non-profit, advertising-free and 100% reader supported.


About Common Dreams
Key Staff
Writers' Guidelines
The Commons - Community Guidelines
Privacy Policy
Jobs
 








Contact Us


Common Dreams
P.O. Box 443
Portland, ME 04112-0443
USA


via Email:


Editor
News Tips?
Article Submissions
News Release Submissions
Webmaster / General Info


207.775.0488 (voice)
 207.775.0489 (fax)
 








Common Dreams brings you the news that matters.


DONATE
 




Sign up for Newsletter


Click to Sign Up
 




Connect With Us


















 
 












