





































































EDITION


US








عربي (Arabi)


Australia


Brasil


Canada


Deutschland


España


France


Ελλάδα (Greece)


India






Italia


日本 (Japan)


한국 (Korea)


Maghreb


México


Québec (En Francais)


South Africa


United Kingdom


United States












































NEWS







Highline


Science


Education


Weird News


Business






TestKitchen


Tech


College


Media












POLITICS







Pollster


Heroin Epidemic


Donald Trump


Racial Inequality


US Senate


Election Results






HuffPost Hill


Police Brutality


Hate Crimes


Supreme Court


Congress


So That Happened












ENTERTAINMENT







Entertainment


Comedy


Celebrity


TV






Arts + Culture


Backspace


Movies












LIFESTYLE







Healthy Living


Travel


Style


Taste






Home


Relationships


Sleep












IMPACT







Reclaim


Project Zero






HuffPost RYOT


Good News












VOICES







Black Voices


Latino Voices


Women






Fifty


Queer Voices


Parents












VIDEO




ALL SECTIONS







Arts + Culture


Black Voices


Books


Business


Candidate Confessional


Celebrity


College


Comedy


Crime


Divorce


Dolce Vita


Eat the Press






Education


Election Results


Entertainment


Fifty


Good News


Green


Healthy Living


Highline


Home


Horoscopes


HuffPost Data


HuffPost Hill






Impact


Latino Voices


Media


Newsletters


Outspeak


Parents


Politics


Pollster


Queer Voices


Religion


Science


Small Business






So That Happened


Sports


Style


Taste


Tech


Teen


TestKitchen


Travel


TV


Weddings


Weird News


Women






FEATURED


OWN


Paving the Way


The Power Of Humanity






Retire Well


Sleep + Wellness


What's Working: Purpose + Profit


WorldPost








































POLITICS





02/02/2017 07:22 pm ET

|



Updated

Feb 03, 2017







Here's How Much Betsy DeVos And Her Family Paid To Back GOP Senators Who Will Support Her


It's good to be a donor.














By Paul Blumenthal






















 


















20k
































250




















WASHINGTON ― The nomination of billionaire heiress 
Betsy DeVos
 to head the Department of Education is one vote shy of failing in the Republican-controlled Senate. One thing that could come to her aid is that she and the entire DeVos family are massive Republican Party donors who helped fund the election of the remaining senators who will decide her fate.


Big donors often get positions in government, ambassadorships or ceremonial titles, but rarely do they come as big as DeVos. Sitting Republican senators have received $115,000 from Betsy DeVos herself, and more than $950,000 from the full DeVos clan since 1980. In the past two election cycles alone, her family has donated $8.3 million to Republican Party super PACs.


Campaign Contributions To Senators By The DeVos Family







HuffPost




Source: Center for American Progress; Every Voice; Federal Election Commission.





After Sens. Susan Collins (R-Me.) and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) announced their opposition to DeVos, her opponents turned their sights on other potential no votes from Republicans. The last hope to scuttle her nomination appears to be Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.). Like a lot of his colleagues, Toomey has received financial support from DeVos and her family throughout his career.


Toomey received $60,050 from the DeVos family during his political career. He was also boosted by two super PACs in his successful 2016 re-election campaign that received DeVos money. Freedom Partners Action Fund, the super PAC founded by the billionaire Koch brothers, spent $7 million to support Toomey’s election while getting $150,000 from the DeVos family. Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC linked to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), spent $15 million to back Toomey after getting more than $2 million from the DeVos family.


For now, it looks like Toomey is a DeVos supporter. He told a Pennsylvania paper, “I will absolutely be voting for Betsy DeVos,” and previously called her a “a great pick.” 
On Thursday
 night, he issued a statement declaring again that he’d vote to confirm her.
 
Despite this, Democrats and other DeVos opponents have 
been pushing Pennsylvania residents
 to inundate his office with phone calls and letters calling for him to oppose the DeVos nomination.


Collins and Murkowski based their no votes on DeVos on the volume of opposition her nomination elicited from their constituents. They also said that DeVos had limited qualifications for the job and that she did not support public education. For what it’s worth, Murkowski received $43,200 from the DeVos family. Collins did not receive any DeVos contributions.


Campaign finance reform groups have called on senators who received money from DeVos and her family to recuse themselves from voting on her nomination.


“Most people can see that Betsy DeVos lacks the experience needed to succeed as Education Secretary, and it’s easy to assume under the circumstances that she is only up for the job because of her family’s history of generous political giving,” Laura Friedenbach, spokeswoman for the reform group Every Voice, said in a statement. “The only way for senators who have received donations from DeVos and her family to rid themselves of the appearance of corruption is to recuse themselves from voting on her nomination.”


The DeVos family has long been embedded in the firmament of Republican Party politics as donors, party leaders and candidates. Richard DeVos Sr. is the founder of the multilevel marketing firm Amway (now Alticor) and owner of the Orlando Magic. A supporter of free market capitalism and a backer of the Christian Right, the elder DeVos was one of a select few to fund the rise of the New Right in the 1970s. His money helped fund the American Enterprise Institute and found the Heritage Foundation.


Betsy DeVos came from a wealthy family herself, although not nearly as rich as the billions amassed by Richard DeVos Sr. Her father made millions in the car parts industry. Later, her brother, Erik Prince, would become a millionaire running the private security firm Blackwater. She was involved in 
the 2006 Michigan governor bid
 made by her husband, Richard DeVos Jr. She also served two stints as the head of the Michigan Republican Party in the late ‘90s and again in the early 2000s.


The effort that she has really poured money into is the cause of market-based education reform. DeVos ran the group American Federation for Children, which has spent millions to support pro-charter school candidates for school board and other state-level offices across the country.


In 1997, after facing years of criticism for her and her family’s campaign contributions, DeVos defended herself in Roll Call.


“I have decided to stop taking offense at the suggestion that we are buying influence,” she wrote. “Now I simply concede the point. They are right. We do expect something in return. We expect to foster a conservative governing philosophy consisting of limited government and respect for traditional American virtues. We expect a return on our investment.”


 


CORRECTION:
 An earlier version of this story said Richard DeVos Jr. ran for governor of Michigan in 2002. He ran in 2006.












Do you have information you want to share with the Huffington Post? 
Here’s how.


















Suggest a correction












Paul Blumenthal









Money in Politics Reporter, The Huffington Post













MORE:


U.S. News
 
U.s. Presidential Elections
 
Political Science
 
US Politics
 
Betsy Devos
















































CONVERSATIONS






































Close


















SUBSCRIBE TO & FOLLOW TRUMP'S FIRST 100 DAYS








How will Donald Trump’s first 100 days impact YOU? Subscribe, choose the community that you most identify with or want to learn more about and we’ll send you the news that matters most once a week throughout Trump’s first 100 days in office.


Learn more








Newsletter
















































2.04 M










1.12 M










470 K










Podcast










Add us on Snapchat


































Here's How Much Betsy DeVos And Her Family Paid To Back GOP Senators Who Will Support Her










20k
































250


































NEW! HIGHLIGHT AND SHARE


Highlight text to share via Facebook and Twitter






































Advertise






RSS






Careers






FAQ










User Agreement






Privacy






Comment Policy






About Us






About Our Ads






Contact Us






Archive






Copyright © 2017 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.    "The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.  All rights reserved.


Part of HuffPost • HPMG News














































































































