

















X








Edition:




United States


















































Business








Business Home


Legal


Deals


Aerospace & Defense






Finance


Autos


Reuters Summits


ADventures






Data Dive












Markets








Markets Home


U.S. Markets


European Markets


Asian Markets






Global Market Data


Stocks


Bonds


Currencies






Commodities


Futures


Funds


Earnings






Dividends












World








World Home


U.S.


Special Reports


Reuters Investigates






Euro Zone


Middle East


China


Japan






Mexico


Brazil


Africa


Russia






India












Politics








Politics Home


Polling Explorer


Live: Trump's First 100 Days


Supreme Court
















Tech








Technology Home


Science


Top 100 Global Innovators


Media






Environment


Innovation












Commentary








Commentary Home 


Podcasts












Breakingviews








Breakingviews Home


Breakingviews Video












Money








Money Home


Retirement


Lipper Awards


Analyst Research






Stock Screener


Fund Screener












Life








Health


Sports


Arts


Entertainment






Oddly Enough
















Pictures










Pictures Home


The Wider Image


Photographers


Focus 360




















Video































            Iran scorns Trump, rebuffs U.S. warning on missiles
























Africa


América Latina






عربي


Argentina






Brasil


Canada






中国


Deutschland






España


France






India


Italia






日本


México






РОССИЯ


United Kingdom




United States






































World News


|


Tue Feb 7, 2017 | 5:01pm EST




Iran scorns Trump, rebuffs U.S. warning on missiles




































left


right









                                Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei delivers a speech in a meeting with military commanders in Tehran, Iran, February 7, 2017. Leader.ir/Handout via 

                                
                                    REUTERS







                            1/4












left


right









                                Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei waves as he delivers a speech in a meeting with military commanders in Tehran, Iran, February 7, 2017. Leader.ir/Handout via 

                                
                                    REUTERS







                            2/4












left


right









                                Military commanders salute during a meeting with Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, Iran, February 7, 2017. Leader.ir/Handout via 

                                
                                    REUTERS







                            3/4












left


right









                                Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei arrives to deliver a speech in a meeting with military commanders in Tehran, Iran, February 7, 2017. Leader.ir/Handout via 

                                
                                    REUTERS







                            4/4


















By 
Bozorgmehr Sharafedin


|
 DUBAI




DUBAI
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Tuesday dismissed the U.S. decision to put Iran "on notice" over its missile tests and called President Donald Trump the "real face" of American corruption.
In his first speech since Trump's inauguration, Iran's supreme leader called Iranians to take part in demonstrations on Friday, the anniversary of Iran's 1979 Islamic revolution, to show they were not frightened of American "threats." 
"We are thankful to (Trump) for making our life easy as he showed the real face of America," Khamenei told a meeting of military commanders in Tehran, according to his website.
Trump responded to a Jan. 29 Iranian missile test by saying "Iran is playing with fire" and imposed fresh sanctions on individuals and entities, some of them linked to Iran's elite Revolutionary Guards.
The White House said the missile test was not a direct breach of Iran's 2015 nuclear pact with six world powers, but that it "violates the spirit of that."
When asked about Khamenei's comments on Tuesday, White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Iran must recognize that the United States is under new leadership.


"This president is not going to sit by and let Iran flout its violations or apparent violations to the joint agreement," Spicer said at a briefing. "I think Iran is kidding itself if they don't realize there's a new president in town."
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said Tehran would not renegotiate the nuclear deal that Trump consistently criticized as being a gift to the Islamic Republic.
"I believe Trump will push for renegotiation. But Iran and European countries will not accept that," Zarif told Tuesday's edition of Ettelaat daily. "We will have difficult days ahead."


On the campaign trail, Trump repeatedly promised to tear up the nuclear deal. While Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has not called for that, he has suggested a "full review" of it.  
Khamenei, Iran's top authority, said Trump had confirmed "what we have been saying for more than 30 years about the political, economic, moral and social corruption in the U.S. ruling system."
Iran analysts said his comments were relatively restrained as they included no threat to respond militarily.


"(Trump) says 'you should be afraid of me'. No! The Iranian people will respond to his words on Feb. 10 and will show their stance against such threats," Khamenei said. 
President Hassan Rouhani backed Khamenei's call for Iranians to rally across the country on Friday to "show their unbreakable ties with the Supreme Leader and the Islamic Republic."
A U.N. Security Council resolution underpinning the nuclear deal urges Iran to refrain from testing missiles designed to be able to carry nuclear warheads, but imposes no obligation.
Iran agreed to curb its nuclear program in exchange for relief from some U.S., European and U.N. economic sanctions. Critics of Iran said the deal emboldened it to increase its involvement in wars in Arab countries, something Tehran denies.
 (Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin; Additional reporting by Emily Stephenson in Washington; Writing by William Maclean; Editing by Robin Pomeroy and Lisa Shumaker)
















Next In 
 World News
 
















Israel's Netanyahu praises Trump's condemnation of anti-Semitic acts


JERUSALEM Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu praised President Donald Trump on Wednesday for publicly condemning anti-Semitic acts after bomb threats to U.S. Jewish centers and vandalism in a Jewish cemetery.
















Malaysia names North Korean diplomat wanted for questioning in murder case


KUALA LUMPUR Malaysian police on Wednesday named a North Korean diplomat along with a state airline official who are wanted for questioning over the murder of Kim Jong Nam, the estranged half-brother of North Korea's leader.
















Le Pen aides taken into French police custody


PARIS French police detained far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen's bodyguard and chief of staff in custody on Wednesday for questioning over alleged misuse of European Union funds to pay parliamentary assistants, Le Pen's lawyer said.





























MORE FROM 
REUTERS




















Sponsored 
Content












From Around the 
Web
Promoted by Revcontent























                                Trending 
Stories


















Pictures


















Photos of the Day
































Iraqi forces push deeper into Mosul







                                Sponsored 
Topics










X








Follow Reuters: 




Follow Us On Twitter


Follow Us On Facebook


Follow Us On RSS


Follow Us On Instagram


Follow Us On YouTube


Follow Us On LinkedIn


Subscribe: 


Feeds
 | 
Newsletters
 | 
Podcasts
 | 
Apps
 






Reuters News Agency
 | 
Brand Attribution Guidelines
  | 
Careers


Reuters is the news and media division of 
Thomson Reuters
. Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Learn more about Thomson Reuters products:








Eikon


Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface 
        










Elektron


Everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management 
      










World-Check


Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks 
      










Westlaw


Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology   
      










ONESOURCE


The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs
      










CHECKPOINT


The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals 
      








 All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. 
See here for a complete list
 of exchanges and delays.










Site Feedback


Corrections


Advertising Guidelines


Cookies


Terms of Use


Privacy Policy














