Breaking News
Search
Stars
Screen
Binge
Culture
Media
Rosie O'Donnell says she's open to playing Steve Bannon on 'SNL'
By 
Madison Park
, CNN
Updated 9:32 AM ET, Tue February 7, 2017 
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
JUST WATCHED
Melissa McCarthy targets Spicer on 'SNL'
Replay
More Videos ...
MUST WATCH
Melissa McCarthy targets Spicer on 'SNL'
 
02:03
Story highlights
Rosie O'Donnell tweets that she's available to play Steve Bannon
Melissa McCarthy's "SNL" performance as Sean Spicer went viral 
 (CNN)
Rosie O'Donnell, a longtime foe of President Donald Trump, says she'd be up for playing his chief strategist, Steve Bannon, on "Saturday Night Live."
The comedian tweeted that she's "available" to satirize Trump's influential adviser following a scorching performance on "SNL" by Melissa McCarthy as an angry, gum-chomping White House press secretary Sean Spicer. 
available - if called i will serve !!! 
https://t.co/LT84EJjfsw
— ROSIE (@Rosie) 
February 7, 2017


Responding to suggestions that she should portray Bannon on "SNL," O'Donnell tweeted: "I am here to serve - alec has trump - melissa has spice - i would need a few days to prepare - so if called - i will be ready."
#BannoninChief
 
https://t.co/UVkK2D6byX
— ROSIE (@Rosie) 
February 7, 2017


Over the weekend, she had 
praised McCarthy as a "COMEDY GOD"
 after her portrayal as Spicer.  
O'Donnell frequently tweets about her disdain for Trump and his policies, as the two have publicly feuded for more than a decade now. Trump has called O'Donnell a "pig" among many other insults. 
Read More
O'Donnell-Trump feud
The Donald Trump-Rosie O'Donnell feud: A timeline
Their bad blood dates to 2006 when O'Donnell, who was a co-host of "The View," criticized Trump -- the co-owner of the Miss USA pageant -- for not firing then-Miss USA Tara Conner after revelations of her drug use, underage drinking and sexual activities.
"I've always been a believer in second chances. Tara is a good person. Tara has tried hard. Tara is going to be given a second chance," Trump said at the time. Conner was allowed to keep her crown but had to go to rehab.
The next day O'Donnell criticized his decision, saying that she doesn't "enjoy" Trump and said he went bankrupt.
She added that Trump was "not a self-made man" but a "snake-oil salesman on Little House On The Prairie." She also slammed his multiple marriages. 
Trump fired back calling O'Donnell a "a real loser" and "a woman out of control." Since then, he's commented about her show's ratings, her weight and called her "crude, rude, obnoxious and dumb."
In 2014, as O'Donnell prepared to return to "The View," she spoke to "People" about the impact of their public sparring. 
JUST WATCHED
Rosie O'Donnell reignites feud with Donald Trump?
Replay
More Videos ...
MUST WATCH
Rosie O'Donnell reignites feud with Donald Trump?
 
01:45
"Probably the Trump stuff was the most bullying I ever experienced in my life, including as a child," O'Donnell said. "It was national, and it was sanctioned societally. Whether I deserved it is up to your own interpretation."
Trump responded to her comments by tweeting, "Rosie—No offense, and good luck on the new show, but remember, you started it!"
.
@Rosie
—No offense, and good luck on the new show, but remember, you started it!    
http://t.co/Ag3TyZZxOh
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
September 25, 2014


But that was not the end of it. 
The public feud resurfaced during the first Republican presidential primary debate last year.  Debate moderator Megyn Kelly asked Trump about his use of language like "fat pigs," "dogs," "slobs" and "disgusting animals" to describe some women. 
"Only Rosie O'Donnell," he interjected. 
CNN's Deena Zaru contributed to this report. 
Content by LendingTree
Rates now at 3.2% APR (15 Yr Fixed). Do you qualify?
 
Fastest way to pay off $10,000 in credit card debt
 
Can you save on your mortgage?
 
The amazing VA benefits not enough vets are claiming
 
Reverse Mortgages: Worth the risk?
 
Paid Partner Content
10 cards charging 0% interest until 2018
 NextAdvisor
 
Getting ready to sell? Find out what your home is worth now
 Trulia
 
Transferring credit card balances to a 21-month 0% APR is ingenious
 NextAdvisor
 
The next generation of Big Bang timepieces from Hublot is here
 Wallpaper
 
Best balance transfer cards for 2017
 NextAdvisor
 
Follow Us
© 2017 Cable News Network. 
Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.
 All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2017 Cable News Network. 
Terms of service
Privacy guidelines
