















A Blog of the 
American Historical Association


Show Menu






Become a Member






RSS


 








 










Browse:




Articles 
Read All




Most Recent










AHA Member Spotlight: Al Camarillo




 


February 22, 2017


0 comments














A Digital History Fact-Finding Mission to AHA17




 


February 21, 2017


2 comments














Reliving Injustice 75 Years Later: Executive Order 9066 Then and Now




 


February 17, 2017


4 comments














Grant of the Week: Phillips Fund for Native American Research Grant program




 


February 15, 2017


0 comments














AHA Member Spotlight: Amina Hassan




 


February 14, 2017


0 comments














Clothes as Historical Sources: What Bloomers Reveal about the Women Who Wore Them




 


February 13, 2017


7 comments














Historians’ Homecoming: The 
Perspectives
 Annual Meeting Special Edition




 


February 10, 2017


0 comments














“What Transferable Skills Do I Have?” Preparing for Careers within and beyond the Academy




 


February 9, 2017


3 comments










Read all articles








Topics 
View All




Most Frequent




African American History




AHA Activities




AHA Today Blog Contest Posts




Annual Meeting




Archaeology




Awards & Grants




Bridging Cultures




Career Diversity for Historians




Chicano(a)/Latino(a)




Cultural History




Culture




Current Events in Historical Context




Digital Scholarship




Ecological Explorations on Staten Island




Economic History




Environmental History




Featured Series




Flashback Friday




Food and Foodways




Global History




History & New Media




History of Science




Indigenous Studies




Jobs & Careers




Journey into an Undocumented Past




Labor History




Legal History




LGBTQ History




Member Spotlight




Migration/Immigration/Diaspora




Military History




National Coalition of History




National History Center




News & Advocacy




Political History




Public History




Publications




Religious History




Researching History




Resources for




Social History




Teaching & Learning




Undergraduate Research




Urban History




What to Do with a BA in History




What We’re Reading




Women's History






View all topics








Contributors 
View All








Allison Miller
American Historical Association
Guest Blogger
James Grossman
Kritika Agarwal
Matthew Keough
Sadie Bergen
Seth Denbo
Stephanie Kingsley
 


View all contributors
















News, Community, and Historical Thinking












Today’s Banned Immigrants Are No Different From Our Immigrant Ancestors





								February 7, 2017							




Permalink






Short URL










 



								Guest Blogger							




@AHAhistorians






									Feed



									Guest Blogger Articles								












By Tyler Anbinder


Underpinning President Donald Trump’s 
recent ban on immigration
 from seven predominantly Muslim countries is the belief that these immigrants are fundamentally different than those who came to the United States in the past. An unsentimental look at the history of American immigrants, however, shows that the banned immigrants are not fundamentally different from Americans’ foreign-born grandparents, great-grandparents, or even great-great-great-grandparents.


Thomas Nast’s 1875 cartoon portrays Roman Catholic bishops as crocodiles threatening American public school children, reflecting 19th century anti-Catholic sentiment in the United States. Wikimedia Commons


Many believe that today’s immigrants are more culturally isolated than those from the past. Previous generations of immigrants had to learn English and assimilate, runs this argument. They could not “press two for Spanish” or use satellite TV or the Internet to isolate themselves from American culture. Yet Irish, German, Italian, Slavic, Scandinavian, and eastern European Jewish immigrants were just as isolated in their ethnic enclaves in the 19th and early 20th centuries as today’s immigrants are in theirs. New York’s 
Kleindeutschland 
was so German, bragged one of its immigrant residents in the 1850s, that one could hardly tell it apart from Stuttgart.
[1]
 Half a century later, adult Italian immigrants rarely learned much English. “I didn’t need it,” one New Yorker explained. “Everywhere I lived, or worked, or fooled around there were only Italians . . . I had to learn some Sicilian, though.”
[2]
 When pundits complain that today’s immigrants don’t assimilate like those from the past, they are harking back to a golden era of assimilation that never actually existed.
[3]


Some think that the 
religious beliefs of today’s immigrants
 pose an unprecedented threat to American values. Muslim immigrants, it is said, cannot be good Americans because they owe ultimate allegiance to foreign leaders and seek to impose their religious views on others. But Americans once said 
precisely
 the same things about Catholic immigrants. A Pennsylvania newspaper 150 years ago likened Catholic immigrants to a foreign army in our midst, waiting for the Pope’s command to destroy Americans’ most valued institutions.
[4]
 Catholics would always remain foreign and separate from the rest of society, insisted an Ohioan. They cannot “really [be] Americans, but only residents in America.”
[5]
 That 
every
 immigrant group viewed this way in the past has become an accepted part of the national fabric suggests that American Muslims will one day be fully accepted too.


One might argue that the role of Muslims in some American terror attacks could make it impossible for Muslim immigrants to gain acceptance the way past religious minorities have. Yet a century ago, Americans feared Italian immigrant terrorists every bit as much as they fear Muslims today. In 1919, Italian immigrant anarchists launched a bombing campaign aimed at dozens of prominent Americans. A bomb targeting US Senator Thomas Hardwick of Georgia 
blew off the hands of his housekeeper
. Another 
destroyed
 part of the Washington home of Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer. This wave of attacks culminated with a 
huge attack on Wall Street
 in 1920 that killed 38 New Yorkers and wounded hundreds. Nonetheless, Italian Americans eventually overcame the prejudice against them stemming from these attacks, and there is no reason not to believe that Muslim Americans won’t do so too.


Another supposed difference between today’s immigrants and those from the past is that contemporary immigrants 
eagerly take government “handouts”
 while previous generations of newcomers were rugged individualists who would not have accepted such assistance even if it had been available to them. Nothing could be further from the truth. Even before the advent of the New Deal, when the federal government began helping the poor and unemployed in large numbers for the first time, there were state, municipal, and even quasi-governmental programs that gave assistance to millions of immigrants. In 19th-century New York, for example, the Democratic Party organization, Tammany Hall, doled out government jobs to both natives and immigrants who had been thrown out of work. Tammany also stole millions of dollars from city coffers to fund an elaborate private welfare program that provided food and fuel to immigrants who were injured, sick, or unemployed. Similar programs around the country helped millions of immigrants make ends meet years before the advent of the New Deal and Great Society welfare programs.


One complaint about undocumented immigrants is that they don’t “
wait in line
” like previous generations of newcomers did. Several fallacies underpin this viewpoint. First, for most of American history, there was no immigration “line.” Every immigrant who wanted to come to the United States could do so without any wait at all. Immigrants from East and South Asia were a notable exception—for long periods, they were banned altogether. But otherwise, even after Americans began imposing various medical and financial tests on immigrants, 98 to 99 percent of Europeans and North Americans who wanted to come to the United States could immigrate whenever they chose to do so.
[6]
 After the United States imposed restrictions on the immigration of southern and eastern Europeans in the 1920s, several million entered the country illegally. Consequently, very few Americans have ancestors who waited in an immigration line for their turn to become Americans.


The second fallacy is that a line exists in which most of today’s undocumented immigrants could have waited. This is simply not true. Almost all visas given to immigrants today are reserved for family members of those already admitted to the United States or those with highly sought-after job skills. If you do not have such a skill, or close relative already lawfully in the United States, there is no way to immigrate legally—no line to get in at all.


From the days of the Puritans to the present, 
every
 generation of Americans has believed that the latest wave of immigrants is completely different from—and inferior to—their own immigrant ancestors and that the newest immigrants pose a threat to American society. Fear of new immigrants may be part of the American character, but so too is the ability to overcome that fear.


Tyler Anbinder is a professor of history at George Washington University and the author of 
City of Dreams: The 400-Year Epic History of Immigrant New York.


Established by the AHA in 2002, the 
National History Center
 brings historians into conversations with policymakers and other leaders to stress the importance of historical perspectives in public decision-making. Today’s author, Tyler Anbinder, recently presented in the NHC’s Washington History Seminar program on “City of Dreams: The 400-Year Epic History of Immigrant New York.”


[1]
 Walter Kamphoefner et al., eds., 
News from the Land of Freedom: German Immigrants Write Home 
(Ithaca, 1993), 538–39.


[2]
 Jennifer Guglielmo, 
Living the Revolution: Italian Women’s Resistance and Radicalism in New York City, 1880–1945 
(Chapel Hill, 2010), 121.


[3]
 For a particularly egregious case of a scholar mythologizing about the difference between past immigrants and contemporary newcomers, see “
From Many, One Nation: America Must Again Assimilate Its Immigrants
,” 
Washington Post
, February 9, 1997.


[4]
 Tyler Anbinder, 
Nativism and Slavery: The Northern Know Nothings and the Politics of the 1850s 
(New York, 1992), 114.


[5]
 Anbinder, 
Nativism and Slavery
, 105.


[6]
 Tyler Anbinder, 
City of Dreams: The 400-Year Epic History of Immigrant New York 
(Boston, 2016), 344; 
Annual Report of the Commissioner General of Immigration for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30 
(1907): 49; (1909): 15; (1911): 12; (1912): 66; (1913): 38; (1915): 57, 126.


 






Back to Top




Reply to Post


(14) Responses




 


Leave a Reply 
Cancel reply
 


Comment
Message
* Required field
Name 
*
 


Email 
*
 


Website
 


 




 




















Richard Brainard
 
February 7, 2017 at 3:10 pm
 




Tyler, did you forget about Ellis Island? This was the main entry port for immigrants during the early 20th century. 
https://www.statueoflibertytickets.com/Ellis-Island/


Did you forget that Tammany Hall was ruled by Boss Tweed, a Democrat, who did rule with an Iron Hand and that the leaders helped the Immigrants, provided that they would vote for His Candidates come election time?


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_M._Tweed






Reply
 
↓
 














@karstdejong
 
February 8, 2017 at 4:53 am
 




RT @hidehirota: Read Tyler Anbinder’s powerful piece against the “our ancestors are different from today’s immigrants” fallacy. 
https://t.c…






Reply
 
↓
 














@EGozdziak
 
February 8, 2017 at 6:35 am
 




A bit of US immigration history 
https://t.co/DICJQVqSMJ






Reply
 
↓
 














@karl_jacoby
 
February 8, 2017 at 7:59 am
 




Today’s Banned Immigrants Are No Different From Our Immigrant Ancestors by Historian Tyler Anbinder  
https://t.co/yJZ81owMH6






Reply
 
↓
 














Joseph M. Adelman (@jmadelman)
 
February 8, 2017 at 9:23 am
 




Tyler Anbinder lays out the continuities in the history of immigration to the United States for @AHAhistorians. 
https://t.co/RcbG9q68AJ






Reply
 
↓
 














@IEHS1965
 
February 8, 2017 at 3:13 pm
 




From IEHS member Tyler Anbinder.  
https://t.co/GLxKSoP4eZ






Reply
 
↓
 














@svsuhistory17
 
February 8, 2017 at 4:05 pm
 




RT @kthlnmcguire: @svsuhistory17 @SVSUHistoryClub Excellent thoughts from top immigration historian! 
https://t.co/gcMDRwPKyB






Reply
 
↓
 














@_Mimipants_
 
February 8, 2017 at 4:45 pm
 




RT @_beneze_: You’ll be shocked to learn that today’s much maligned immigrants are no different than past ones #Americannativism 
https://t.…






Reply
 
↓
 














@RevMenocchio
 
February 8, 2017 at 6:13 pm
 




“Every generation of Americans has believed that the latest wave of immigrants is completely different from—and… 
https://t.co/9uawm5WA6r






Reply
 
↓
 














@kreeve
 
February 8, 2017 at 7:08 pm
 




RT @jnthnwwlsn: “A century ago, Americans feared Italian immigrant terrorists every bit as much as they fear Muslims today.” 
https://t.co/4…






Reply
 
↓
 














Tobias Pester 
February 11, 2017 at 6:48 am
 




I really appreciate the motivation behind this essay. But how can we assume “that every immigrant group viewed this way in the past has become an accepted part of the national fabric [and that that] suggests that American Muslims will one day be fully accepted too” when


(1) “Immigrants from East and South Asia were a notable exception—for long periods, they were banned altogether”


and


(2) only “98 to 99 percent of *Europeans and North Americans* who wanted to come to the United States could immigrate whenever they chose to do so”?


This analysis strikes me as colorblind. For one, not every segment of the American population that hails from ancestors who immigrated are accepted as equally American, American at all, or even human for that matter. That is why the descendants of forced immigrants still have to advocate for their humanity chanting “black lives matter”.


Second, the structure of this piece is brilliant: take the reservations expressed about immigrants today and refute their claims by providing historical context. This is exactly how we should engage publicly today. At the same time, the historical evidence provided and cited above seems to me to do in fact reveal distinctions that made some immigrant groups be able to “immigrate whenever they chose to do so” and “become an accepted part of the national fabric” while others “were banned altogether”. That distinction, which seems to me to be race, may not be consciously or openly expressed anymore today. But I think that it cannot be disregarded in our historical analysis given the evidence.






Reply
 
↓
 














@pharvey61
 
February 12, 2017 at 6:53 pm
 




Put on the #StephenMillerSyllabus please: 
https://t.co/DLFSvvlLRK






Reply
 
↓
 














@ZachHollifield
 
February 12, 2017 at 7:34 pm
 




This. 
https://t.co/IdzfoWqoF0






Reply
 
↓
 














@KadSilvUS
 
February 15, 2017 at 10:00 pm
 




RT @djgonzoPhD: When pundits complain today’s #immigrants don’t #assimilate…they are harking back to an era…that never existed. https:/…






Reply
 
↓
 






















 



						Guest Blogger					




@AHAhistorians







							Guest Blogger Articles						


									Feed














 
Recent Posts
 




AHA Member Spotlight: Al Camarillo






A Digital History Fact-Finding Mission to AHA17






Reliving Injustice 75 Years Later: Executive Order 9066 Then and Now






 
Write for AHA Today!
 
Interested in contributing to our blog? Check out our 
guidelines for guest submissions
.


AHA on Twitter
 
Tweets by @AHAhistorians




Commenting Policy
 
The AHA appreciates feedback on all publications, including posts on AHA Today. Feel free to comment, but first please read our 
commenting policy
.


 














Connect


AHA on Twitter


AHA on Facebook


AHA on LinkedIn


AHA on YouTube


AHA on Pinterest


RSS Feed






Contact


400 A Street, S.E. Washington, DC 20003


Directions >


Phone: (202) 544-2422 
|
 Fax: (202) 544-8307

						Email: 
info@historians.org


© 2012–2013 American Historical Association
























