 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
Menu
Beta | About
About
Team
Sections
POLITICS
NATIONAL SECURITY
U.S. | WASHINGTON D.C.
Middle East | North Africa
SOUTH EAST ASIA
RUSSIA | FSU
VETERANS
BREAKING NEWS
Culture
Food
Sports
Film
Travel
Books
Opinion
Op-Ed
Columnists
MICHAEL CONNOLLY
GAIL HARRIS #GAILFORCE
DALE M. NELSON
CAROLINA SAM
JOHN SJOHOLM
J. DAVID THOMPSON
DAN WEBB
Video
Podcasts
Veterans
Careers
Outreach
Education
Contact
 
Facebook
 
Twitter
 
Tumblr
 
Instagram
 
 
Insight & analysis by military veterans & service members Worldwide
 
Trump nominee Betsy DeVos faces steep opposition as vote approaches
 
Published on February 4, 2017
 
 
 by 
J. David Thompson
 
President Trump’s nominee to head the Department of Education, Betsy DeVos, is in jeopardy as two Republican Senators disapproved of her nomination this week. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) broke party alignment in opposition to voice their concerns.
Betsy Devos (Reuters)
On the Senate floor, Senator Collins 
said
, “The mission of the Department of Education is broad, but supporting public education is at its core. I am concerned that Mrs. DeVos’ lack of experience with public schools will make it difficult for her to fully understand, identify, and assist with those challenges, particularly for our rural schools in states like Maine.”
Following her, Senator Murkowski 
stated
, “I have heard from thousands – truly thousands of Alaskans who have shared their concerns about Mrs. DeVos as Secretary of Education. They’ve contacted me by phone, by email, in person. Their concerns center, as mine do, on Mrs. DeVos’ lack of experience with public education and the lack of knowledge she portrayed at her confirmation hearing. Alaskans not satisfied that she would uphold federal civil rights laws in schools that receive federal funds.”
Democratic Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) 
voiced
 his concern stating, “She failed to meet three requirements I consider essential to serving as Secretary of Education – someone who is pro-public schools, pro-accountability and pro-civil rights. Over 90 percent of our nation’s children attend public schools. . . . Mrs. DeVos has said that public schools are a ‘dead end’ and that ‘government really sucks’ when it comes to education. This statement betrays the commitment of thousands of public school teachers who work hard every day in our public schools, many in tough working conditions, to ensure our children are educated.”
Some Senate offices reported receiving more calls opposing Betsy DeVos than any other Trump nominee 
https://t.co/YWiFypRF6V
— The New York Times (@nytimes) 
February 4, 2017
Senators Collins, Murkowski, and Kaine are all members of the Senate’s Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. Democrats must vote as a bloc and persuade three Republicans to vote with them to prevent Mrs. DeVos from being nominated.
Additional concerns include that DeVos has supported voucher programs and may seek to cut education funding. She also failed to ensure Senators that she would enforce civil rights law in schools, and when asked about gun control on school grounds by Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), who has been vocal on gun control since the Sandy Hook massacre, DeVos rejected banning guns from schools citing a need to defend against “
potential grizzlies
.”
Despite lack of support from the Republican Senators, White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer 
voiced certainty
 that Betsy DeVos will still be nominated. “I have 100 percent confidence she will be the next secretary of education.”
On January 9, 2017, 20 of the nation’s governors penned a 
letter in support
 stating, “President-elect Trump has made an inspired choice to reform federal education policy and allow state and local policymakers to craft innovative solutions to ensure our children are receiving the skills and knowledge to be successful in the world and modern workforce.”
At the moment, the tally of legislators for and against DeVos stands deadlocked at 50-50. Should the tie remain, the decision would come down to Vice President Mike Pence.
The Senate is expected to vote on DeVos’ nomination early next week.
J. David Thompson
, Lima Charlie News
J David Thompson (US Army) is a Juris Doctor candidate at Washington & Lee University School of Law focusing on International Human Rights Law. He is a Veterans in Global Leadership Fellow, and brings experience on human rights, international relations, strengthening civil society, refugee issues, interagency collaboration, and countering violent extremism. Prior to Washington & Lee, he served in the US Army as a Military Police officer and Special Operations Civil Affairs with multiple deployments to Afghanistan and one to Jordan—receiving a Bronze Star amongst other decorations. In Jordan, David worked at the US Embassy in countering violent extremism, strengthening civil society, and refugee response with other United States Government organizations, the United Nations, and various non-governmental organizations. Follow David on Twitter 
@JDThompsonLC 
Lima Charlie provides global news, insight & analysis by military veterans and service members Worldwide.
For up-to-date news, please follow us on twitter at 
@LimaCharlieNews
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Subscribe
 
Email Address 
 
NEW! Lima Charlie Food
 
Colorado activists push legislator to sponsor Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act
 
 
Questions arise over alleged Ukraine peace deal and ties to Trump Administration
 
 
Dept of Homeland Security announces sweeping immigration enforcement plan
 
 
The Horse Race Episode 31 is live!
 
 
FROM THE FRONTLINES – The Mosul Offensive: Operation Western Bank Liberation
 
 
VP Mike Pence presents Trump Admin policy to NATO
 
 
NEWS WIRE
Colorado activists push legislator to sponsor Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act
| Denver, CO – Activists, including veterans, protested in Denver today requesting that Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) join Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) in co-sponsoring the Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act of 2017. Lima Charlie Senior Correspondent… The post Colorado activists push legislator to sponsor Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act appeared first on Lima Charlie News.
Questions arise over alleged Ukraine peace deal and ties to Trump Administration
Dmitry Peskov, Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman, has stated that an alleged Trump administration peace plan for eastern Ukraine is “absurd.” As first reported by the New York Times, a plan that would lead to the lifting of… The post Questions arise over alleged Ukraine peace deal and ties to Trump Administration appeared first on Lima Charlie News.
Dept of Homeland Security announces sweeping immigration enforcement plan
The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has announced a sweeping immigration enforcement plan to implement President Trump’s promise to crack down on the reported 11 million undocumented immigrants currently in the United States. In a… The post Dept of Homeland Security announces sweeping immigration enforcement plan appeared first on Lima Charlie News.
The Horse Race Episode 31 is live!
The Horse Race is back! This week: Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn’s resignation over the Russian scandal, Trump’s North Korea response, the assassination of Kim Jong Un’s half brother, the Trump Florida campaign rally & fake terror attack… The post The Horse Race Episode 31 is live! appeared first on Lima Charlie News.
Latest Podcasts
 
 
 
 
February 21, 2017
The Horse Race Episode 31 is live!
 
 
 
 
February 16, 2017
#3Marines sports show is LIVE! Episode 12 with Dan Webb
 
 
 
 
February 9, 2017
#3Marines sports show is LIVE! Episode 11 with Brendan McKinnon
 
 
 
 
February 8, 2017
The Horse Race hits the big three oh! Episode 30 is live!
Post navigation
Previous Story
 
Previous post:
 
FIBA’s ‘hijab ban’ still the rule in women’s basketball
Next Story
 
Next post:
 
Reports Trump wants female White House Staff to ‘dress like women’ prompt swift response
Latest from AMERICAS
 
 
 
 
February 21, 2017
 
Colorado activists push legislator to sponsor Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act
 | Denver, CO – Activists, including veterans, protested in Denver today requesting that
 
 
 
 
February 21, 2017
 
Dept of Homeland Security announces sweeping immigration enforcement plan
 The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has announced a sweeping immigration enforcement
 
 
 
 
February 1, 2017
 
Over 10,000 gather in NYC to protest Trump ‘Muslim Ban’
 Thousands of demonstrators gathered in downtown New York City this Sunday to
 
 
 
 
January 31, 2017
 
Starbucks boycott backfires after vow to hire 10,000 refugees
 Another social media hashtag activism effort by conservatives has backfired this week
 
 
 
 
January 30, 2017
 
The Internet turns on Uber over Trump Muslim ban
 Flush with energy and political activism in response to President Trump’s Muslim
LIMA CHARLIE FOOD
Watch
ISIS Use of VX Nerve Gas
 from 
Lima Charlie
 on 
Vimeo
.
Martin O'Malley, Women's March 2017
 from 
Lima Charlie News
 on 
Vimeo
.
Listen to our Podcasts
 
 
RECENT NEWS
 
Colorado activists push legislator to sponsor Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act
 
Questions arise over alleged Ukraine peace deal and ties to Trump Administration
 
Dept of Homeland Security announces sweeping immigration enforcement plan
 
The Horse Race Episode 31 is live!
 
FROM THE FRONTLINES – The Mosul Offensive: Operation Western Bank Liberation
 
VP Mike Pence presents Trump Admin policy to NATO
 
Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster picked to replace Mike Flynn as National Security Advisor
 
China suspends all coal imports from North Korea as tensions mount
 
Germany escalates global military role and NATO spending
 
Syria: Russian Air Force pounds Deraa
 
The few, the unelected, the shadowy coup against Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn
 
Allegations of a ‘Chinese Blackwater’ continue to plague Erik Prince
Search
 
 
SUBSCRIBE
 
Email Address 
 
ABOUT LIMA CHARLIE
 
 
 
 
Facebook
 
Twitter
 
Tumblr
 
Instagram
Lima Charlie Media LLC (c) 2016 - 2017
| 
Privacy Policy
 |
 Terms of Use 
| Website Created by: 
Lima Charlie Media
 
Go to
 
Top
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


