





































































EDITION


US








عربي (Arabi)


Australia


Brasil


Canada


Deutschland


España


France


Ελλάδα (Greece)


India






Italia


日本 (Japan)


한국 (Korea)


Maghreb


México


Québec (En Francais)


South Africa


United Kingdom


United States












































NEWS







Highline


Science


Education


Weird News


Business






TestKitchen


Tech


College


Media












POLITICS







Pollster


Heroin Epidemic


Donald Trump


Racial Inequality


US Senate


Election Results






HuffPost Hill


Police Brutality


Hate Crimes


Supreme Court


Congress


So That Happened












ENTERTAINMENT







Entertainment


Comedy


Celebrity


TV






Arts + Culture


Backspace


Movies












LIFESTYLE







Healthy Living


Travel


Style


Taste






Home


Relationships


Sleep












IMPACT







Reclaim


Project Zero






HuffPost RYOT


Good News












VOICES







Black Voices


Latino Voices


Women






Fifty


Queer Voices


Parents












VIDEO




ALL SECTIONS







Arts + Culture


Black Voices


Books


Business


Candidate Confessional


Celebrity


College


Comedy


Crime


Divorce


Dolce Vita


Eat the Press






Education


Election Results


Entertainment


Fifty


Good News


Green


Healthy Living


Highline


Home


Horoscopes


HuffPost Data


HuffPost Hill






Impact


Latino Voices


Media


Newsletters


Outspeak


Parents


Politics


Pollster


Queer Voices


Religion


Science


Small Business






So That Happened


Sports


Style


Taste


Tech


Teen


TestKitchen


Travel


TV


Weddings


Weird News


Women






FEATURED


OWN


Paving the Way


The Power Of Humanity






Retire Well


Sleep + Wellness


What's Working: Purpose + Profit


WorldPost








































POLITICS





02/07/2017 12:29 pm ET

|



Updated

Feb 07, 2017







Betsy DeVos Ekes Out Confirmation As VP Casts First Tie-Breaker For Cabinet Post


Two Republicans joined the Senate's 48 Democrats in opposing the secretary of education.














By Rebecca Klein






















 


















27k
































6.5k




















Vice President 
Mike Pence
 cast the deciding vote Tuesday for President 
Donald Trump’s
 pick for education secretary ― the first time a vice president’s tie-breaking vote has been used for a Cabinet confirmation.


Betsy DeVos garnered a 50-50 tie from senators, with the 46 Democrats and two independents of the chamber plus two Republicans voting against her. The vote came after Democrats 
held the Senate floor
 for 24 hours straight, in hopes of pressuring another Republican to join their side. 


Senate Dems protest to keep the failed status quo. Betsy DeVos is a reformer, and she is going to be a great Education Sec. for our kids!
— President Trump (@POTUS) 
February 7, 2017




DeVos has weathered a particularly controversial confirmation hearing. Her nomination inspired intense backlash from parents and teachers on both sides of the political aisle. After Republican Sens. Lisa Murkowski (Alaska) and Susan Collins (Maine) announced last week that they would be voting against DeVos, other 
Republican senators faced a barrage of calls
 from constituents urging them to similarly flip. 
Protests sprung up around the nation
, also taking issue with DeVos’ seeming lack of qualifications for the job.


Still, with the exception of Murkowski and Collins, Republicans toed the party line, creating the type of political gridlock that is rare for votes on Cabinet secretary confirmations. 


DeVos ― who comes from a billionaire Michigan family ― inspired opposition from teachers unions and public education advocates after her nomination was first announced in November. However, after she had what many saw as a lackluster and embarrassing performance at her confirmation hearing, the calls of those opposing her grew louder. DeVos was mocked for her comment that schools might need guns to ward off 
grizzly bear attacks
 and for her seeming lack of familiarity with mainstream education concepts and laws. 


In the past week, senators were slammed with calls from constituents, 
many with opinions about DeVos
. The progressive network CREDO Action received over 1.4 million signatures on a petition opposing DeVos ― 
the most a petition from the organization has ever received
. 


Supporters of DeVos say teachers unions ― from whom DeVos is on the opposite end of the ideological spectrum ― drove opposition to her confirmation. But even teachers union leaders say the extent of opposition to 
DeVos surprised them
.   


I warned last yr DeVos would be sleeper battle. Informed parents, not just unions, oppose==>
https://t.co/550vabRXA6
https://t.co/Hin1On12EK
— Michelle Malkin (@michellemalkin) 
February 7, 2017




Throughout the confirmation process, DeVos maintained the support of influential Republican leaders such as former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and Sen. Lamar Alexander (Tenn.), chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. She even garnered a few endorsements from high-profile Democratic education leaders. But Democrats point to the fact that some of DeVos’ support may have been bought ― 
her family has donated copious amounts to members of Congress
. Given that teachers unions also donate to politicians, her supporters say this argument is hypocritical.


DeVos has spent decades as an education activist, mostly pushing policies that benefit charter schools and voucher programs ― which allow kids to attend private schools using taxpayer funds. DeVos and her supporters say she is willing to shake up the status quo to give kids increased choice over where they go to school. Alexander, one of DeVos’ most ardent supporters, emphasized this point when speaking on the Senate floor Tuesday morning.


Alexander said she has been at the forefront of the “most important public school reform in the last 30 years” with public charter schools and that she has “worked tirelessly to give low income children more of the same choices wealthy children have.”


Still, her detractors say her preferred policies amount to a dismantling of the traditional public education system.


“Over the past few weeks, people have learned about Betsy DeVos’ tangled finances and potential conflicts of interest. How she and her family have given hundreds of millions of dollars to Republicans and extreme conservative groups. They have learned about her failed record,” Patty Murray (D-Wash.) said on the Senate floor Tuesday morning. “How she has spent her career and her inherited fortune pushing anti-public-school policies that have hurt so many students in her home state of Michigan and across the country.”


DeVos did not attend public schools, send her children to public schools or ever formally work in public schools. As a devout Christian, she has inspired fear that she will try to 
push religion in schools
. But even some of her critics concede that she appears to care deeply about children. 


As opposed to other Trump nominees, DeVos became an especially high-profile lightning rod for backlash, with celebrities chiming in to oppose her nomination on social media.


So this if you care about our children. 
pic.twitter.com/8YtwRuN6lt
— Chelsea Handler (@chelseahandler) 
February 4, 2017




FYI these are the best chances we now have to 
#StopDevos
. Read below. 
pic.twitter.com/W5BGBwZ3S0
— billy eichner (@billyeichner) 
February 7, 2017




After the vote, groups decried her confirmation.


“Americans across the nation drove a bipartisan repudiation of the Trump-DeVos agenda for students and public education,” Lily Eskelsen Garcia, president of the National Education Association, said in a statement. “Today’s outcome marks only the beginning of the resistance. Students, educators, parents, civil rights and special education advocates ― along with millions of Americans ― are speaking loud and clear: we are here to stay ... we will protect public education.”


DeVos thanked the Senate via Twitter after the vote.


I appreciate the Senate's diligence & am honored to serve as 
@usedgov
 Secretary. Let's improve options & outcomes for all US students.
— Betsy DeVos (@BetsyDeVos) 
February 7, 2017




This post has been updated with reaction from education groups and a tweet from DeVos.












Do you have information you want to share with the Huffington Post? 
Here’s how.










ALSO ON HUFFPOST








 




















Suggest a correction












Rebecca Klein









Education Editor, The Huffington Post













MORE:


U.S. News
 
Republican Politics
 
Political Science
 
Senate
 
U.S. Congressional Elections
















































CONVERSATIONS






































Close


















SUBSCRIBE TO & FOLLOW TRUMP'S FIRST 100 DAYS








How will Donald Trump’s first 100 days impact YOU? Subscribe, choose the community that you most identify with or want to learn more about and we’ll send you the news that matters most once a week throughout Trump’s first 100 days in office.


Learn more








Newsletter
















































2.04 M










1.12 M










470 K










Podcast










Add us on Snapchat


































Betsy DeVos Ekes Out Confirmation As VP Casts First Tie-Breaker For Cabinet Post










27k
































6.5k


































NEW! HIGHLIGHT AND SHARE


Highlight text to share via Facebook and Twitter






































Advertise






RSS






Careers






FAQ










User Agreement






Privacy






Comment Policy






About Us






About Our Ads






Contact Us






Archive






Copyright © 2017 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.    "The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.  All rights reserved.


Part of HuffPost • HPMG News














































































































