

















 made by immigrants
      




Donate 
to the ACLU


Submit 
Company







      Amazing companies proudly made by first and second generation immigrants.
      
Also showcasing those companies who stand by immigrants in these uncertain times.












65 companies - 551,005+ jobs created










Abacus



        Abacus is the easiest way for you to reimburse your team, reconcile corporate credit cards, and implement your expense policy.
      


Created 20+ Jobs
















Adobe



         Software company that provides its users with digital marketing and media solutions.
      


Created 10k+ Jobs
















Airbnb



        Online community marketplace for people to list, discover, and book accommodations around the world.
      


Created 2k+ Jobs
















Amazon



        International e-commerce website for consumers, sellers, and content creators.
      


Created 10k+ Jobs
















AppDynamics



        Connect app performance and customer experience to business outcomes with a smarter approach to performance management
      


Created 1k+ Jobs
















Apple



        Multinational corporation that designs, manufactures, and markets consumer electronics, personal computers, and software.
      


Created 10k+ Jobs
















BrightEdge



        BrightEdge, an SEO platform delivering an uplifted ROI, enables marketers to increase revenue from organic search.
      


Created 331+ Jobs














Bessemer Venture Partners



        Manages more than $4 billion of venture capital invested in over 130 companies around the world.
      
















Buffer



        Buffer is the best way to drive traffic, increase fan engagement and save time on social media.
      


Created 77+ Jobs
















Caremerge



        Caremerge provides senior living teams and their familes with technology that effectively shares information with care providers across a resident’s care network.
      


Created 70+ Jobs
















Casper



        Sleep startup that launched with an outrageously comfortable mattress sold directly to consumers — eliminating commission ­drive.
      


Created 100+ Jobs
















Code Academy



        Codecademy teaches millions of people the technology skills they need to find jobs.
      


Created 200+ Jobs
















Digital Ocean



        Simplifying the cloud by providing an infrastructure experience that developers love.
      


Created 250+ Jobs














Doorman



          Delivery startup that is creating a world where online shoppers never see a missed delivery notice or have packages stolen ever again.
      


Created 20+ Jobs
















Dropbox



        Makes it easy for hundreds of millions of people to access, share, and collaborate on their files so they can be more productive — at home and at work.
      


Created 1k+ Jobs
















eBay



        Online auction and e-commerce marketplace that connects a global network of buyers and sellers.
      


Created 10k+ Jobs
















Ephox



        Ephox helps more than 30% of the world's websites create content.
      


Created 25+ Jobs
















Etsy



        E-commerce site and a smartphone application for buying and selling handmade and vintage items.
      


Created 250+ Jobs
















Evernote



        Suite of software and services that allow users to capture, organize, and find information across multiple platforms.
      


Created 250+ Jobs
















Expedia



        Online travel agency that provides hotel reservations, airline tickets, vacation packages, and more.
      


Created 10k+ Jobs
















First Round Capital



        Seed-stage venture firm focused on building a vibrant community of technology entrepreneurs and companies.
      
















Ford



        At Ford, we go further to make our cars better, our employees happier and our planet a better place to be
      


Created 199k+ Jobs
















Foursquare



        Uses location intelligence to build meaningful consumer experiences and inform business decisions.
      


Created 100+ Jobs
















Fueled



        Leading mobile agency that builds apps for vc-back startups, large brands, and Fortune 500 companies
      


Created 150+ Jobs
















FundersClub



        FundersClub is an online venture capital firm.
      


Created 18 Jobs
















Github



        Web-based Git repository hosting service offering distributed revision control and source code management functionality of Git.
      


Created 598 Jobs
















Google



        A multinational corporation that is specialized in internet-related services and products.
      


Created 10k+ Jobs
















Grovo



        Grovo is a technology company redefining learning for today's workforce.
      


Created 130+ Jobs














Gusto



        Comprehensive HR, payroll, and benefits service enabling businesses to set up and run payroll from any web-enabled device.
      


Created 250+ Jobs
















Healthify



        Healthify's mission is to build a world where no one's health is hindered by their need.
      


Created 25+ Jobs
















Instavest



        Instavest is a platform that helps people make profitable stock market investments.
      














Jeggie



        A brand that is making activewear affordable again.
      


10+ jobs














Kohactive



        Helping companies of all sizes solve problems through data-driven design & technology.
      
















LendStreet



        LendStreet helps consumers restructure debt and rebuild their financial lives
      


Created 13+ Jobs














Linux Foundation



        Non-profit technology trade association chartered to promote, protect and advance Linux and collaborative development.
      














Lyft



        Reconnecting people and communities through better transportation.
      


Created 1k+ Jobs














Mabbly



        We believe in inspired thinking, a conscious choice to pursue purpose.
      


Created 30+ Jobs
















Maxwell Health



        Maxwell Health simplifies benefits and HR for small- to mid-size employers
      


Created 170+ Jobs














Minio



        Minio is a distributed object storage server built for cloud applications and devops.
      


Created 20+ Jobs














Occasion



        Provides a simple, but powerful tool for merchants to grow their business and connect with customers.
      


Created 9 Jobs














Oscar



        Health insurance company that employs technology, design, and data to humanize health care.
      
















Ozmotik



        Ozmotik allows anyone to track post-click engagement of the links they share.
      


Created 4 Jobs














Percolate


The System of Record for Marketing


Created 250+ Jobs
















Periscope


Periscope was founded on the belief that live video is a powerful source of truth and connects us in an authentic way with the world around us


Created 42 Jobs
















Rabbit


Connecting people globally through shared video experiences


Created 30+ Jobs
















Reddit


Reddit bridges communities and individuals with ideas, the latest digital trends, and breaking news.


Created 150+ Jobs














SpaceX


The world’s largest AI-driven product and pricing database, driving the next generation of e-commerce.


Created 5 Jobs














Shutterstock


A global marketplace for downloading millions of beautiful high-resolution stock photos, illustrations, and vectors.


Created 700+ Jobs














Sift Science


Helping online businesses fight fraud with machine learning.


Created 84+ Jobs














Slack


Team communication application providing services such as real-time messaging, archiving, and search for modern teams.


Created 250+ Jobs
















The Snug



        Full-Service Digital Agency, specializing in Design and Development for the web.
      
















SpaceX


SpaceX designs, manufactures and launches advanced rockets and spacecraft


Created 5,000+ Jobs














Starbucks


International chain of restaurants that retails handcrafted coffee, tea, and fresh food items.


Created 238,000 Jobs














Stripe


Provides a set of unified APIs and tools that instantly enable businesses to accept and manage online payments.


Created 500+ Jobs














Sunrise.am


Free calendar app specifically designed to make your life easier. Available on Android, iPhone, iPad, Mac & Web.


Created 15 Jobs














Take The Interview


Cloud-based interview management platform that helps organizations hire better people faster.














Tesla, Inc.


Tesla’s mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy


Created 30,000+ Jobs














Tinder


Anonymously finds people nearby that like each other and connects them if they are both interested.


Created 100+ Jobs
















TripAdvisor


TripAdvisor's Mission is to help people around the world plan and have the perfect trip


Created 2k+ Jobs
















Trusted


Trusted is a managed marketplace for parents to find highly qualified vetted caregivers for their children


Created 500+ Jobs














Uber


A mobile app connecting passengers with drivers for hire.


Created 5k+ Jobs














Udemy


Udemy's mission is to improve lives through learning.


Created 250+ Jobs














Venmo


Makes it easy, safe, and fun to pay your friends.
















Well Health


WELL makes it simple for healthcare practices to communicate with their patients easily, securely, and effectively


Created 10+ Jobs














WeWork


Provides the space, community and services you need to create your life’s work.


Created 1k+ Jobs












Donate
 to the ACLU


Submit 
Company






Download
 our badges and add to your site to show your support.








Github Repo
















