Entertainment
Search
Search
SIGN IN
Subscribe
timeshop
These 8 Books Can Help You Finally Understand Business
celebrities
Why Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling Are the Definition of Friendship Goals
Missouri
‘Love Heals.’ Jewish Families Heartbroken Over Cemetery Vandalism Find Comfort in Muslim Supporters
NASA
NASA Announces a Single Star Is Home to At Least 7 Earthlike Planets
Sandra Bullock speaks onstage during the "Our Brand Is Crisis" press conference at the 2015 Toronto International Film Festival on Sept. 12, 2015.
 
George Pimentel—Getty Images
Entertainment
This Chart Shows Hollywood's Glaring Gender Gap
Chris Wilson
Oct 06, 2015
How much harder is it to make in Hollywood as a woman? While male actors see their careers peak at the age of 46, female actors reach their professional pinnacles at age 30, according to a TIME analysis of the careers of over 6,000 actors and actresses. And things aren't getting better in the film industry: Women today who are the age of 60 are seeing the number of roles they are cast in decline faster than their older peers once did. At the same time, younger men are seeing their careers peak even later their older peers.
For more charts and examples on this topic, see 
Time Labs
.
The plight of sexism in Hollywood 
recently reached the forefront
 when it was revealed that 51-year-old Sandra Bullock is playing the lead in "Our Brand is Crisis," a role originally intended for George Clooney. And as Vulture noted recently, Hollywood is fond of 
pairing young actresses
 like Emma Stone with considerably older male leads.
The problem is not a new phenomenon in the workplace, where 
men reach their peak earning potential
 much later than women. Hollywood is not only guilty of this same sexism, but displays an even greater disparity than most industries.
Methodology
To collect a sample of actors and actresses, we compiled the top five leading actors and actresses from the top 5,000 grossing movies in the Internet Movie Database, which stretches back to the 19th century . (While some movies choose to list the cast alphabetically, our spot checks suggest IMDB is good about listing the most prominent roles first in the cast list.) The gender of each actor was imputed from the pronouns in his or her mini-biography, a method that appears to have very high accuracy.
After parsing out those with incomplete information on their pages, we were left with a list of 6,000 actors and actresses who have appeared in a lead role in at least one major movie. For each of those individuals, we then looked at every movie he or she has appeared in and his or her age at the time. The graphs above show a moving total of roles over a five year period. For example, the value at age 40 represents the total roles a person received between ages 38 and 42 while the value at age 45 represents the total roles a person received between ages 43 and 47.
Customer Service
Site Map
Privacy Policy
Ad Choices
Terms of Use
Your California Privacy Rights
Careers
© 2017 Time Inc. All rights reserved.
All products and services featured are based solely on editorial selection. TIME may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website.
SIGN IN
SUBSCRIBE
Search
Home
U.S.
Politics
World
Business
Tech
Health
TIME Health
Motto
Entertainment
Science
Newsfeed
Living
Sports
History
The TIME Vault
Magazine
Ideas
Parents
TIME Labs
Money
LIFE
The Daily Cut
Photography
Videos
TIME Shop
Press Room
The 100 Most Influential People
The 25 Best Inventions of 2015
Future of Giving
Global Trade
Know Right Now
Next Generation Leaders
Person of the Year 2015
Top 10 Everything of 2015
Top of the World
A Year In Space
Subscribe
Newsletters
Feedback
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Ad Choices
RSS
TIME Apps
TIME for Kids
Advertising
Reprints and Permissions
Site Map
Help
Customer Service
Follow TIME
SHARE
Share on Facebook
Post on Twitter
Email this story
Share on Reddit
Share on Pinterest
Share on LinkedIn
