Vanity Fair
hive
business
technology
politics
vf summit
hwd
movies
television
awards
reviews
vanities
celebrity
fashion
beauty
royals
NEWSLETTER
Video
VF Store
Magazine
Search
It’s Oscar Week!
Fill Out Your Ballot with Vanity Fair
Movies
TV
Awards
Reviews
Not Ready for Primetime
Rosie O’Donnell Offers to Help 
S.N.L.
 Drive Donald Trump Over the Edge
Email
Facebook
Twitter
SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTER
Not Ready for Primetime
Rosie O’Donnell Offers to Help 
S.N.L.
 Drive Donald Trump Over the Edge
Why Trump’s old sparring partner is offering to give a Steve Bannon impression a whirl.
by 
Joanna Robinson
February 7, 2017 12:51 am
Email
Facebook
Twitter
From left: Courtesy of NBC; by Michael Bezjian/Getty Images; courtesy of The Washington Post/Getty Images
When 
Kristen Stewart
 and 
Alec Baldwin
 each took their shots at 
Donald Trump
 last Saturday night, a certain segment of the population waited for the president to explode on Twitter the next morning. “Every Sunday morning is a countdown until Trump tweets about 
SNL
,” comedian 
Kumail Nanjiani
 
joked
. But Trump has kept mum on that subject so far, restricting his messages to the Super Bowl and 
undermining
 the U.S. judicial system. In the end, however, it wasn’t Baldwin or Stewart who reportedly got under Trump’s skin: it was 
Melissa McCarthy’s
 brilliant and enormously popular take on 
Sean Spicer
. And now Trump’s decade-long foe, 
Rosie O’Donnell
, is offering to help finish the job.
Press Secretary Spicer is already on record as being casually displeased with McCarthy’s bullish, bombastic impression of him. He 
told
 
Extra
 that McCarthy “needs to slow down on the gum chewing; way too many pieces in there” but generously called the show “really funny.” But according to 
Politico
, it wasn’t the gum chewing that displeased Trump. “More than being lampooned as a press secretary who makes up facts,” a source close to Trump told the Web site, “it was Spicer’s portrayal by a woman that was most problematic in the president’s eyes.” Even worse, the potentially emasculating portrayal is allegedly “not considered helpful for Spicer’s longevity in the grueling, high-profile job in which he has struggled to strike the right balance between representing an administration that considers the media the ‘opposition party,’ and developing a functional relationship with the press.”
Throughout his campaign, Trump made it clear that he has certain expectations when it comes to gender. He memorably 
kicked off
 a feud with former Fox News correspondent 
Megyn Kelly
 when she asked him about his attitude toward women during a primary debate. Kelly’s perceived aggression prompted Trump to later claim she had “blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever,” and to refer to her as a “lightweight” on Twitter.
But the nastiest, gendered feud of Trump’s career (if you don’t count the 2016 election) is the public battle he’s fought with Rosie O’Donnell. Starting in 2006, when O’Donnell made disparaging remarks about the future president on 
The View
, Trump told 
People
, “Rosie’s a loser. A real loser. I look forward to taking lots of money from my nice fat little Rosie.” Like his 
odd fixation
 with Kristen Stewart, Trump’s public bullying of O’Donnell has continued for a surprisingly long period of time—a decade and counting—and he has taken every possible occasion to take shots at her. The president sometimes bent over backward to include an O’Donnell insult in completely unrelated conversations . . .
https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/200603697435246592
. . . or even 
nationally televised debates
. “Probably the Trump stuff was the most bullying I ever experienced in my life, including as a child,” O’Donnell told 
People
 in 2016. “It was national, and it was sanctioned societally. Whether I deserved it is up to your own interpretation.”
Given their combative history, it should come as no surprise that O’Donnell would want to help 
S.N.L.
 pile on to its 
increasingly confrontational
 portrayal of the president and his close circle. When news circulated late Monday night that Trump’s biggest issue with 
S.N.L.’s
 Spicer sketch was McCarthy’s gender, someone floated the idea that perhaps his old nemesis, Rosie O’Donnell, should play Trump’s top adviser: 
Steve Bannon
. And as that idea picked up steam on Twitter, it made its way to O’Donnell herself, who was immediately game.
https://twitter.com/Rosie/status/828792995591888896
https://twitter.com/Rosie/status/828817401718439939
https://twitter.com/Rosie/status/828820454647427073
The person currently portraying Bannon on Saturday nights is new cast member 
Mikey Day
, who—in full Grim Reaper drag—whispers demonically bad ideas into Baldwin’s Trump’s ear, forcing the president to sit at a miniature desk while he takes the seat of power in the Oval Office. But as TV critic 
Alan Sepinwall
 
notes
, Trump might actually view this depiction of Bannon as a twisted compliment:


Portraying Bannon as the Grim Reaper doesn’t seem to have gotten
Bannon into the same hot water the Politico article suggests Spicer is
now in. Being told that your top adviser is evil is an easy joke, and
maybe even something to be taken as a point of pride, given how much
Trump and Bannon both like to brag about crushing their enemies. But
portray Bannon at his biggest and sloppiest — while still forcing the
classy POTUS himself to sit at the little desk — and that’s something
that might actually make Trump question his trust in the man.


Mikey Day’s version of Bannon—though demonically evil—is powerful. But on the subject of McCarthy as Spicer, a “top Trump donor” observed to 
Politico
: “Trump doesn’t like his people to look weak.”
Trump has time and again betrayed a curious obsession with body image. 
The Washington Post
 has a fairly 
exhaustive rundown
 of Trump’s many targets, which have included 
Jennifer Lopez
, 
Chris Christie
, 
Kim Kardashian West
, former Miss Universe 
Alicia Machado
, and, of course, O’Donnell. One suspects this evident preoccupation may have also played a role in Trump’s allegedly negative reaction to McCarthy, who launched a successful 
plus-sized clothing line
 in 2015 and often 
wears her own designs
 on the red carpet.  So holding up O’Donnell—whom Trump has called a “fat pig” in the past—as a mirror to Bannon 
does
 seem like a perfectly crafted blow.
It seems unlikely that 
S.N.L.
 will tap O’Donnell for the part. The show doesn’t often cast its roles by committee. But O’Donnell—a plus-size, gay woman—stepping into the role of the power behind Trump’s throne might just be the thing to send the president over the edge. (If that’s the goal.) And given the president’s recent reaction to 
whispers about
 the power Bannon holds over him (“I call my own shots,” he 
tweeted
 Monday morning in response to a 
New York Times
 article detailing Bannon’s supposed sway), Trump may already be teetering on the brink.
VIDEO: What the Explosive Start of 
Saturday Night Live
 Was Actually Like
Share
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Joanna Robinson
Joanna Robinson is a Hollywood writer covering TV and film for VanityFair.com.
Around the Web
Powered by Zergnet
RELATED
SEEK
Watch Kristen Stewart Give 
S.N.L.’s
 Annual Super Bowl Commercial a Big Gay Makeover
BY 
JOANNA ROBINSON
S.N.L.
: Watch Melissa McCarthy Debut an Explosively Violent Sean Spicer Impression
BY 
JOANNA ROBINSON
SEEK
NEWSLETTER SIGN UP
subscribe
Follow VF
Vanity Fair Worldwide:
United Kingdom
Italy
Mexico
Spain
France
Visit our sister sites
Condé Nast Store
Reprint/Permissions
VF Media Kit
Promotions
Contact VF
Customer Service
Advertising
Inside The Issue
Careers
Digital Edition
Sitemap
Condé Nast
© Condé Nast.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
User Agreement
 (effective 
January 2, 2014
) and 
Privacy Policy
 (effective 
January 2, 2014
).
Your CA Privacy Rights
.
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices
