

























Menu











										Home Page
										










Book Now!











										Destinations
										










Let Hawaii Happen










Promotions






Cruises






Tours






Hotels






Blog






News







										About Us
										










Meet Travel Agent










Contact




































Kittie Travel




Hawaii Vacation Specialist, Hawaii based Agency offers unique and worry free vacation, Your Dream Vacation come true and memorable!






keiko@kittietravel.com
P: (808) 518-7642
F: (877) 528-5467
















































Tweet
















Book Now




















































































 
 
















Home


News


Lady Gaga Follows Super Bowl Spectacle With World Tour Announcement














Lady Gaga Follows Super Bowl Spectacle With World Tour Announcement
















2/07/2017




If there is a better time to announce a world tour than right after performing halftime at the Super Bowl, we haven’t found it.
Following a spirited, drone-filled halftime show Lady Gaga announced she would entertain the world on the Joanne World Tour—a festive display of what we can only presume will be gaudy costumes and delicious pop renditions.
The fun kicks off in North America on August 1 in Vancouver before it heads out to Europe with a Barcelona show on September 22. You will have to wait just a bit to snag tickets. For those hoping to see the Grammy winner in person in Barcelona, Paris, Zurich, Hamburg, Berlin and Koln, tickets go on sale February 10.
The rest of Europe, as well as those cities on the first leg of the tour, can get in on the action on Feb. 13, while the second leg of North America becoming available on Feb. 20.
Citi cardmembers get a bit of a head start on the sale, and further details on that can be found at citiprivatepass.com.
You are probably wondering when Lady Gaga will come to your town. Well, you can get a full list as well as ticket information at her official website or at Live Nation.
After Vancouver, the Golden Globe winner will then head off to Edmonton, Tacoma and Los Angeles before performing in Las Vegas in August. As we mentioned, she will start a European leg on September 22, shortly after concluding this hemisphere with a Sept. 15 concert in Rio de Janeiro.
Lady Gaga will play 31 cities before a return effort in the states, kicking off on November 5 in Indianapolis.
So far, there is no word on whether those delightful drones will also make the trip.














Lady Gaga Follows Super Bowl Spectacle With World Tour Announcement





















						
							Recent Promotions
						
					








Andaz Maui at Wailea


From: 
Funjet Vacations








20-Day Eastern Mediterranean & the Gulf


From: 
Norwegian Cruise Line






View All Promotions















						
							Related Cruises
						
					








Andaz Maui at Wailea


From: Funjet Vacations


Andaz gardenview with 2 Queen Beds Sunshine on SaleProtect your vacation...








20-Day Eastern Mediterranean & the Gulf


From: Norwegian Cruise Line


Cruise Line: Norwegian Cruise LineShip Name: Norwegian StarEmbarkation...















						
							Related Tours
						
					








Andaz Maui at Wailea


From: Funjet Vacations


Andaz gardenview with 2 Queen Beds Sunshine on SaleProtect your vacation...








20-Day Eastern Mediterranean & the Gulf


From: Norwegian Cruise Line


Cruise Line: Norwegian Cruise LineShip Name: Norwegian StarEmbarkation...














Travel Destinations








Asia


In Hong Kong, they like to point out that within a five-hour flight of their dazzling...








United States, 
north america


A melting pot of diversity with an ever-expanding palate of distinct flavors, traditions,...








Tokyo, 
japan


Tokyo, Japan, is both a technology-obsessed society stuck on fast forward and an ancient...




































Contact Us








keiko@kittietravel.com


mori_keiko@msn.com





								(808) 518-7642








							Kittie Travel


								930 21st Avenue, B

									Honolulu, HI 96816 

						




							Florida Seller of Travel Ref. No. ST15578 
 California Seller of Travel No. 2090937-50 
 Washington UBID No. 603189022 
 Iowa Registered Agency # 1202

						
















Powered by Agent Studio


|


Terms Of Use


|


Privacy Policy


|


Copyright


|


Site Map





					
						Admin Access 
Sign In






Switch to the desktop site




































