

































































×


We hope you have enjoyed your complimentary access for the month.










Already a subscriber?


Click on the button below to set up your account or log in if you already have one.














Want to become a subscriber?


Purchase a digital-only subscription now for unlimited online access to local news and information.










Digital-only Access




















Unlimited Access to:
            


azdailysun.com


mobile web and mobile apps


e-replica edition of printed newspaper








Digital-only access only $11.00/mo




































Current Subscriber?










Set up your account








Log In














Current Subscriber?










Set up Account


































You are the owner of this article.




 Edit Article


 Add New Article
























































Sign Up



                        Log In
                    












Dashboard


 
 Logout
















My Account


 Dashboard


 Profile


 Saved items




 Logout




















Subscribe


Customer Service









                
                Sections
                
            

















                                e-Edition
                            













                                News
                            







                                        Local
                                    





                                        Crime & Courts
                                    





                                        Business
                                    





                                        Environment
                                    





                                        Education
                                    





                                        State
                                    





                                        Nation
                                    





                                        World
                                    











                                Sports
                            







                                        High School
                                    





                                        NAU
                                    







                                Opinion
                            









                                Obituaries
                            









                                Photos & Video
                            













                                Local Life
                            







                                        Arts and Theatre
                                    





                                        Calendar
                                    







                                Flag Live!
                            









                                Special Sections
                            









                                Jobs
                            









                                Homes
                            













                                Buy & Sell
                            







                                        Business Directory
                                    











                                Entertainment
                            







                                        Games & Puzzles
                                    





                                        People
                                    











                                Lifestyles
                            







                                        Entertainment
                                    





                                        People
                                    







                                Weekly Ads
                            









                                Contact Us
                            









                                Submit a News Tip
                            









                                Submit Letter to Editor 
                            









                                Submit Sport Scores
                            






















Toggle navigation








Menu



















































                                                    Search
                                                


























































Search










































Log In Using Your Account


Log In










Don't have an account?
 
Sign Up Today






























My Account


 Dashboard


 Profile


 Saved items




 Logout






























43°
















 







                                
                                    Flagstaff, AZ
                                
                                 
(86001)




Today


Mostly cloudy early then partly cloudy and windy this afternoon. High 51F. Winds SW at 20 to 30 mph..


Tonight


Partly cloudy skies. Low 24F. Winds WSW at 15 to 25 mph. Winds could occasionally gust over 40 mph.


 Updated: February 22, 2017 @ 9:04 am








 Full Forecast



















                    
                    News
                



                    
                    Sports
                



                    
                    Opinion
                



                    
                    Obituaries
                



                    
                    Local Life
                



                    
                    Buy & Sell
                



                    
                    Flag Live!
                


















































Close






































Carolyn Kaster






Education Secretary-designate Betsy DeVos testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee on Jan. 17, 2017. 












































































































































AP
 
breaking





        
        Vice President Mike Pence breaks tie in Senate to confirm Betsy DeVos as education secretary
    






Associated Press




Feb 7, 2017


 
0


















































































































































































Education Secretary-designate Betsy DeVos testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington at her confirmation hearing before the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee on Jan. 17, 2017. 






Carolyn Kaster






WASHINGTON (AP) — The Senate on Tuesday confirmed school choice advocate Betsy DeVos as Education secretary by the narrowest of margins, with Vice President Mike Pence breaking a 50-50 tie in a historic vote.
Two Republicans joined Democrats in the unsuccessful effort to derail the nomination of the wealthy Republican donor. The Senate historian said Pence's vote was the first by a vice president to break a tie on a Cabinet nomination.


Democrats cited her lack of public school experience and financial interests in organizations pushing charter schools. DeVos has said she would divest herself from those organizations.
Republicans Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska fear that DeVos' focus on charter schools will undermine remote public schools in their states.




Despite the win, DeVos emerges bruised from the highly divisive nomination process. She has faced criticism, even ridicule for her stumbles and confusion during her confirmation hearing and scathing criticism from teachers unions and civil rights activists over her support of charter schools and her conservative religious beliefs.
But President Donald Trump remained uncompromising and accused Democrats for seeking to torpedo education progress. In a tweet before the vote, he wrote "Betsy DeVos is a reformer, and she is going to be a great Education Sec. for our kids!"
After an all-night speaking marathon by Democrats, Sen. Patty Murray of Washington state, the top Democrat on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee urged her Republican colleagues to vote against DeVos, calling her unqualified and saying that she will be a poor advocate for low income families and students with disabilities who rely on public education.
"We are just within one vote of sending this nomination back and asking the president to send us a nominee that can be supported by members on both sides of the aisle, that can set a vision that can fight for public schools, that can be that champion," Murray said.






Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said DeVos will seek to empower states, not federal bureaucrats, to make important education decisions.
"I know that she is committed to improving our education system so that every child — every child — has a brighter future," McConnell said ahead of the vote.
Emotions ran high ahead of the vote as constituents jammed senators' phone lines with calls and protesters gathered outside the Capitol, including one person in a grizzly bear costume to ridicule DeVos' comment during her confirmation hearing that some schools might want guns to protect against grizzlies. Her opponents also charge that DeVos has no experience to run public schools, having never attended one or sent her children to a public school.


DeVos has provided few details about her policy agenda, but she is sure to have a busy job. She will have to weigh in on the implementation of the Every Student Succeeds Act and possibly undo some of the previous administration's regulation initiatives on school accountability and spending, which have been criticized by Republicans as federal overreach. Rules on such things as accountability already have been on hold.
She will have to address several hot-button issues in higher education, such as rising tuition costs, growing student debt and the troubled for-profit colleges, many of which have closed down, leaving students with huge loans and without a good education or job prospects. Observers will pay close attention to how DeVos deals with sexual assault and freedom of speech on campuses.
DeVos will also have to react to Trump's campaign proposal of funneling $20 billion of public funds toward school vouchers.
In addition to DeVos, Republicans hope to confirm a series of other divisive nominees this week: Alabama Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions as attorney general, GOP Rep. Tom Price of Georgia as health secretary and financier Steven Mnuchin as treasury secretary.
In each case Democrats intend to use the maximum time allowed under the Senate's arcane rules to debate the nominations, which may result in a late-night votes this week and delay Mnuchin's approval until Saturday.
Republicans complain that previous presidents have been able to put their Cabinets in place more quickly. Democrats say it's Trump's fault because many of his nominees have complicated financial arrangements and ethical entanglements they claim they have not had enough time to dissect. Thus far, six Cabinet and high-level officials have been confirmed, including the secretaries of state, defense, homeland security and transportation.
The clash over nominees has created a toxic atmosphere in the Senate that mirrors the tense national mood since Trump's election, with Democrats boycotting committee votes and Republicans unilaterally jamming nominees through committee without Democrats present. Yet there's little suspense about the final outcome on any of the nominees because Democrats themselves changed Senate rules when they were in the majority several years ago so that Cabinet nominees can now be approved with a simple majority, not the 60 votes previously required.













                
                Get news headlines sent daily to your inbox
                
            




































Sign Up!











                I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
            


 












































































































Tags






Wire






Politics






Dcc






National






Government And Politics






Donald Trump






Mike Pence






Betsy Devos






Senate
















































×


Post a comment
















Emoticons 






[smile]


[beam]


[wink]


[sad]


[cool]


[innocent]


[rolleyes]


[whistling]


[lol]


[huh]


[tongue]


[love]


[sleeping]


[yawn]


[unsure]


[angry]


[blink]


[crying]


[ohmy]


[scared]


[sleep]


[sneaky]


[tongue_smile]


[thumbdown]


[thumbup]


[censored]


[happybirthday]


[ban]


[spam]


[offtopic]


[batman]


[ninja]


[pirate]


[alien]








Comment Text












Cancel






Post comment




























×


Report


















Cancel






Report Abuse


































×




Watch this discussion.


Stop watching this discussion.

















                            Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion
                        



                            Notifications from this discussion will be disabled.
                        








Cancel








Start watching


Stop watching


























 (0) comments 
                            
                        












Welcome to the discussion.






Log In








Keep it Clean.
 Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.


PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.


Don't Threaten.
 Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.


Be Truthful.
 Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.


Be Nice.
 No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.


Be Proactive.
 Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.


Share with Us.
 We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.







Post a comment








Watch this discussion.


Stop watching this discussion.







































                
                Tell us what you think
                
            











        
        
        

        Recent political impressions have caused Saturday Night Live's ratings to soar.  Which of these SNL impressions were your favorite?
        
            












You voted:
 














 Alec Baldwin as Donald Trump
                                








 Kate McKinnon as Betsy Devos
                                








 Kate McKinnon as Kellyanne Conway
                                








 Melissa McCarthy as Sean Spicer
                                








 The Grim Reaper as Steve Bannon
                                








 I didn't like any of these
                                








 I don't watch SNL
                                




Vote


View Results










Back

































        
        
        

        Justices side with Michigan girl in dispute over service dog
        
            

































        
        
        

        Supreme Court orders new hearing for black Texas inmate
        
            

































        
        
        

        Polish play investigated for blasphemy, inciting violence
        
            

































        
        
        

        US existing home sales rose 3.3 percent in January to the fastest pace in a decade
        
            

































        
        
        

        The Latest: Kansas governor keeps promise to veto tax hike
        
            

































        
        
        

        End of the euro? French candidate plots return of the franc
        
            

































        
        
        

        Kagan sees 'narrower definition' of US interests
        
            











































        
        
        

        Iran ready to give US a "slap in the face": commander
        
            

































        
        
        

        Woman berates McConnell at luncheon
        
            













































                
                More on this topic
                
            













        
        
        

        Justices side with Michigan girl in dispute over service dog
        
            









        
        
        

        Supreme Court orders new hearing for black Texas inmate
        
            









        
        
        

        Polish play investigated for blasphemy, inciting violence
        
            









        
        
        

        US existing home sales rose 3.3 percent in January to the fastest pace in a decade
        
            









        
        
        

        The Latest: Kansas governor keeps promise to veto tax hike
        
            

















                
                Most Popular
                
            















        
        
        

        Why did Mark Nelson die?
        
            









        
        
        

        Goodwill looks to merger and infusion of cash
        
            









        
        
        

        Warm weather through Wednesday, but Snowbowl, Nordic Village open Presidents Day
        
            









        
        
        

        Snow runoff fills upper Lake Mary
        
            









        
        
        

        User fees and alternate routes to untangle Flagstaff snowplay gridlock?
        
            















































































































                
                Sites & Partners
                
            















                    
                    Mountain Living Magazine
                



                    
                    Flag Live
                



                    
                    Direct Impressions
                



                    
                    Online Features
                















                
                Tools & Services
                
            















                    
                    Contact Us
                



                    
                    Submit a News Tip
                



                    
                    Submit Letter to Editor
                



                    
                    Career Opportunities
                














© Copyright 2017 
Arizona Daily Sun
, 1751 S. Thompson Flagstaff, AZ
 | 
Terms of Use
 | 
Privacy Policy


Powered by 
BLOX Content Management System
 from 
TownNews.com
.
































































