































































































































Log In or Sign Up








Log In






Sign Up







































                
              Topics
              
                









                
              Trending
              
              







            more
            

























          Topics
          
            










Culture






Policy & Politics






World






Business & Finance






Technology










Science & Health






Identities






Energy & Environment






Explainers






Video










First Person






Podcasts






The Big Idea






New Money













            Trending
            
          




✕


















































Kellyanne Conway is still lying about the Bowling Green massacre





  
    Updated by

    


Zack Beauchamp
@zackbeauchamp





        Feb  6, 2017, 11:52am EST
      

















          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        






























(Mark Wilson/Getty Images)








Last week, Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway justified the president’s controversial immigration and refugee ban by pointing to a
 fake terrorist attack
 purportedly committed by refugees that she called “the Bowling Green Massacre.” On Monday, 
Cosmopolitan
 revealed that she had 
actually done this before
, referring to the “Bowling Green massacre” in an interview the publication had conducted with her in January. That suggests that Conway’s now-famous and widely mocked error wasn’t a slip of the tongue, but actually a propaganda line she’s been using for weeks to justify Trump’s “Muslim ban.”


That’s not even the most jaw-dropping part of Cosmo’s new report. The really stunning part is that when Cosmo reached out to Conway for comment on Friday, the senior White House official lied 
again
 about what happened in Bowling Green.


“It was a plot to massacre and they were Bowling Green terrorists,” Conway wrote in a text message to Cosmo’s reporter. “That's what I should have said. I clarified.”


This is not true, at all. There was no plot to massacre anyone in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Conway lied in January, she lied on MSNBC, and she’s 
still lying 
— even after days of being mocked by the national media, 
thousands of people around the country
, and even a 
fake memorial in Bowling Green itself
.
 










What actually happened in Bowling Green wasn’t a massacre at all


In 2010, an unnamed man approach an Iraqi refugee living in Bowling Green named Waad Ramadan Alwan and asked if he’d be interested in shipping weapons and money to Iraqi insurgents. Alwan said yes, and recruited another refugee living in the town, Mohanad Shareef Hammadi, to help him out.


Over the course of the next several months, Alwan and Hammadi deposited machine guns, rocket-propelled grenade launchers, Stinger missiles, and C4 plastic explosives in warehouses and tractors that they thought belonged to insurgent allies.


But the entire thing was a ruse. The unnamed man who invented the whole scheme was an FBI source, and the weapons (purchased locally) were immediately scooped up by bureau agents. Alwan and Hammadi were arrested in May 2011, the only terrorism-related arrests of Iraqi refugees in US history.
 










The key point here is that Alwan and Hammadi were not plotting a domestic terrorist attack; their goal was to send the weapons to Iraq. The FBI also didn’t bust up a “massacre” in the making, as Conway said; they busted up a terrorist support ring that they had helped invent themselves.


In another follow-up with Cosmo reporters, which took place on Sunday, Conway made up more facts. She said that “these two Iraqi nationals came to the US with a plan of death and destruction,” but there’s 
no evidence
 they were planning to send weapons back until the FBI talked to them.


By now, there is no excuse for Conway not knowing this. Basically every major national media outlet reported the details of what happened in Bowling Green after Conway’s MSNBC goof. The FBI’s 
official press release
 containing all of these details is easily Google-able.


Conway seems not to care. She seems more interested in backing up her boss and refusing to admit any error than getting things right — even after being called out for days at this point.


Conway’s job, as far as anyone can tell, is to serve as one of Trump’s chief media surrogates. But Conway’s brazen lies call into question whether she should be allowed, by the media, to appear on their network or in their pages. This Sunday, CNN refused to let Conway appear on its network — in part, 
the New York Times
’s Jim Rutenberg reports, because of “serious questions about her credibility.”


That’s soft-pedaling it. There’s no need to question her credibility. On this issue, she doesn’t have any.




Watch: How to cover a lying White House


















Was this article helpful?








Awesome, share it:











          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        
















Help us improve. Give us your feedback:




Your email address:






































Next Up In


World








A Russian newspaper editor explains how Putin made Trump his puppet






Is the “deep state” a threat to Donald Trump — or to democracy?






Venezuela’s economic crisis is so dire that most people have lost an average of 19 pounds






Amid rising anti-Semitism, Trump’s lackluster response has Jewish groups concerned






Why US-born panda Bao Bao is leaving for China: panda diplomacy, explained






H.R. McMaster, Trump’s pick for national security adviser: a brief guide





































































      
        
          Most Read
        
      
    






















Donald Trump is dangerous when he’s losing






















Obama's White House photographer is now America's foremost purveyor of anti-Trump Instagram shade






















The fall of Milo Yiannopoulos, explained






















Why South Koreans now live longer than Americans






















NASA announcement: live-stream the space agency’s latest exoplanet discovery
































Get Vox in your inbox








Enter your email address












By signing up you agree to our 
terms of use
.









  This Article has a component height of 18. The sidebar size is long.







































The Latest
























A Russian newspaper editor explains how Putin made Trump his puppet



  
    by

    


Sean Illing
@seanilling








“They consider him a stupid, unstrategic politician.”




























NASA has discovered 7 Earth-like planets orbiting a star just 40 light-years away



  
    by

    


Brian Resnick
@B_resnick








This tiny star has 7 planets that potentially could be suitable for life.




























Why Milo Yiannopoulos’s canceled book deal isn’t a moral win for conservative publishing



  
    by

    


Constance Grady
@constancegrady








Yiannopoulos has demonstrated exactly where conservative publishing draws its line.




























This year’s Oscars Best Picture winner is … (La La Land, probably)



  
    by

    


Todd VanDerWerff
@tvoti








Check out our predictions in the Picture, Directing, and Screenplay categories.




























A viral blog post is forcing Uber to address its sexism problem



  
    by

    


Timothy B. Lee








CEO Travis Kalanick is promising to change Uber’s culture, but it won’t be easy.




























Bill Maher gave Milo Yiannopoulos a megaphone. Now he's claiming credit for Milo’s fall.



  
    by

    


German Lopez
@germanrlopez








The liberal TV host might be taking credit, but he had nothing to do with it.






































































Chorus










Terms of Use


Privacy Policy


Communications Preferences






Contact


Send Us a Tip


Community Guidelines


Masthead







  All Systems Operational
  
Check out our status page for more details.










Vox Media


Advertise with us


Jobs @ Vox Media

      
      © 2017 
Vox Media
, Inc. All Rights Reserved
      
      
    























          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        




























