



























































































twitter


Facebook


instagram


youtube


Company


Careers


Contact


Terms


Privacy








































 








Wednesday, February 22
nd
, 2017
































































Setup Menu via Wordpress Dashboard > Appearance > Menus
 












































Home
  » 
Donald Trump
 
 


Who’s in charge? Trump didn’t know he’d put Bannon on the NSC until it was done






Shares




















 




By Leah McElrath   |





			      			  February 6, 2017			      		
















 
Donald Trump 
signed an executive order
 that put Chief Strategist Steve Bannon on the National Security Council. But Trump apparently did not even realize he was doing so when he put pen to paper.
 








(AP Photo/Kevin Hagen)




The New York Times published 
a fascinating piece
 about the inner workings of the White House under the Trump administration over the past two weeks. Buried deep within the richly detailed article was a stunning revelation: Donald Trump reportedly did not know he had appointed his Chief Strategist Steve Bannon to a position on the National Security Council (NSC) until after he signed the 
Presidential Memorandum
 doing so (emphasis added):


…Mr. Bannon remains the president’s dominant adviser, 
despite Mr. Trump’s anger that he was not fully briefed on details of the executive order he signed giving his chief strategist a seat on the National Security Council
, a greater source of frustration to the president than the fallout from the travel ban.


The reorganization of the (NSC) 
evoked concerns
 when it was first announced, since it not only 
removed
 the Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence from the Principals Committee, which is the core group within the NSC, but also gave Bannon a seat on the Principals Committee, which was seen as further indication of this administration’s distrust of expert counsel and disdain for experienced (and potentially dissenting) voices.


Additionally, the inclusion of Bannon was thought by some to indicate an 
extreme politicization
 of the administration’s approach to national security. Bannon, Trump’s former campaign manager and former head of the right-wing online media outlet Breitbart, is a hard-line nationalist who has 
bragged about
 making Breitbart a platform for white supremacists.


However, until the publication of the NYT report, the fact that Trump was unaware of the appointment of Bannon to the highest level national security advisory body in the United States until after he had signed that appointment into effect had not been revealed. And this raises grave questions about what is happening within the White House and who is exactly is in control — whether Trump is reading the orders and memoranda he signs, if he is receiving and remembering accurate and comprehensive briefings from his staff, and if Bannon, who was dubbed “the Great Manipulator” on the 
cover of Time Magazine
, manipulated his way into the position without even consulting his ostensible boss.


While enjoying the prestige of the position, Trump has shown himself to be 
relatively disinterested
 in the actual day-to-day responsibilities of the presidency, including those with 
life-and-death national security impact
. According to the NYT report, sources describe him as “obsessed with the décor” of the White House and having been “delighted to page through a book that offered him 17 window covering options.”


Meanwhile, only days into Trump’s presidency, the White House previously revealed the almost unimaginable information that Trump was 
absent from the Situation Room
 during the disastrous raid by U.S. military on a compound in Yemen — a raid he reportedly green-lighted over dinner and which resulted in the death of a Navy SEAL and, according to Yemeni officials, 
15 women and children
.


In addition to demonstrating Trump’s detachment from the real-life impact of the papers he is signing, this latest revelation about Trump’s lack of knowledge about the appointment of Bannon to the NSC demonstrates a president not in control of his closest and most trusted advisors — and calls into question his judgment and temperamental fitness for the highest office in the land.














 Author 




 






Senior Writer and Twitter Director


Leah McElrath

     		Human rights activist and communications strategist, formerly Managing Partner of Renna Communications and a psychotherapist. Follow her on Twitter @leahmcelrath.
		 	
































More












 










Fox News anchor schools despotic Senior White House Adviser on checks and balances




















 










Anne Frank Center: “Trump quacks, walks, and talks like an anti-Semite. That makes him an anti-Semite.”




































Shares






share


















Recent
Fox News anchor schools despotic Senior White House Adviser on checks and balances
Anne Frank Center: “Trump quacks, walks, and talks like an anti-Semite. That makes him an anti-Semite.”
Can’t wait for 2018: This month’s special elections are key for the Resistance
More than 22 million people could lose their doctor if Trump’s Muslim ban stays in place
Trump’s visit to a Black history museum cannot reset his racism
Without a trace of irony, WH says Mar-A-Lago makes Trump accessible to “regular Americans”
While Pence poses for cameras with U.S. allies, “President Bannon” meets in private to destroy them
62 year-old pig farmer warns GOP: Repealing Obamacare will create “one great big death panel”
Family values: White House says protecting trans kids is “states’ rights issue”
Trump is losing support from voices conservatives trust
Trump not sure where anti-Semitism is coming from — as WH fails again to mention Jews
John Lewis: ‘I will get in trouble. Good trouble. Necessary trouble.’
BIPARTISAN EXPERT: Trump’s chaos makes us more vulnerable to “major terrorist attack”
47,000 #ResistanceRecess organizers dash GOP hope that Resistance will ‘calm down’
It has now been a full week since Trump received an intelligence briefing
 




































































© 2016 True Blue Media LLC.




 
 
 
 


Company


Careers


Contact


Terms


Privacy








 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 




































 




















Press enter/return to begin your search
































 










×


























































