



















Like us on Facebook


Follow us on Twitter


Sierra Rise








Stories to save the planet.


Remember, sharing is caring so share them a lot.


























Tell big banks to divest from Dakota Access Pipeline
Photo credit: 
Fibonacci Blue
, 
CC BY 2.0
The Dakota Access pipeline would carry hundreds of thousands of barrels of some of the dirtiest oil on the planet across four states, putting public health and welfare, critical water supplies, cultural resources and ancestral burial grounds in danger.
For months, the Standing Rock Sioux have peacefully gathered to stop the pipeline. In response, they've been pelted with rubber bullets and water cannons. More than 100 activists have been arrested. And now, according to a recent report from Food & Water Watch, the Standing Rock Sioux have to contend with powerful financial institutions like Citibank and Wells Fargo that are directly bankrolling this pipeline. 
It costs $3.8 billion to build the pipeline. Without capital, it fails. 
Tell big banks to divest from the Dakota Access pipeline now.






Your Information

































































                By taking action, you will also receive periodic communications from the Sierra Club. You can unsubscribe at any time.












Your Message










Subject


Divest from the Dakota Access Pipeline














Message
I strongly object to your investment in the Dakota Access pipeline. It is a dangerous and unjust oil pipeline that threatens public health, water supply, and cultural resources, and violates sacred land rights of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe.

Please clarify if the funds you have invested are being used in any way to support the heavily militarized response to the Standing Rock Sioux protests. I also urge you to immediately give up your financial stake in the Dakota Access pipeline.


I strongly object to your investment in the Dakota Access pipeline. It is a dangerous and unjust oil pipeline that threatens public health, water supply, and cultural resources, and violates sacred land rights of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe.

Please clarify if the funds you have invested are being used in any way to support the heavily militarized response to the Standing Rock Sioux protests. I also urge you to immediately give up your financial stake in the Dakota Access pipeline.


















































Contact Us
 | 
Privacy Policy
 | SierraRise is presented by 
Sierra Club
Sierra Club® and "Explore, enjoy and protect the planet"® are registered trademarks of the Sierra Club. © 2017  Sierra Club.
The Sierra Club Seal is a registered copyright, service mark, and trademark of the Sierra Club.










