

























































Skip links
 Skip to primary navigation
 Skip to content
 Skip to primary sidebar
 Skip to footer


eHeadlines.com
News You Can Use
Main navigation
Home


Headlines


Featured


Politics


Pop Culture


Viral


Polls


Contact


February 7, 2017
 By 
Kristie McDonald
 
Rosie O’Donnell Wants To Play Steve Bannon on SNL To Piss Off Trump [VIDEO]


















Rosie O’Donnell hates Donald Trump and the feeling is certainly mutual. After the report on how President Donald Trump reacted negatively to Melissa McCarthy in drag embodying his Press Secretary Sean Spicer on Saturday Night Live, Rosie O’Donnell has said she would impersonate Chief Strategist Steve Bannon on the show.  Several people suggested O’Donnell play Bannon, and she is apparently all in.




 








McCarthy’s portrayal of Spicer left Trump deeply unimpressed, sources said after the clip aired, but it also left viewers longing for more comedic clips featuring Trump Staffers.


Daily Mail
 reports,


After Politico released a report saying that the aspect of the sketch that bothered the President the most was the fact that his administration member was played by a woman, social media users took to Twitter calling for some of Trump’s least favorite actresses to join the show.


O’Donnell retweeted one person, saying she’s available, adding: ‘If called I will serve !!!’


She tweeted back at one person, saying that if she got the call she ‘would need to have a few days to prepare’ and ‘will be ready.’


Other people on Twitter suggested that Meryl Streep take up the role of Bannon. One person suggested Ellen Degeneres impersonate Vice President Mike Pence.


Trump and O’Donnell have been embattled in a decade-long feud that kicked off long before the November 8 election.


It began in 2006 when O’Donnell was a host on The View and continued for years. Throughout Trump’s campaign for the White House, O’Donnell regularly took swipes at the president-elect.


Watch what Trump had to say about Rosie back then:










Related


Comments
 comments


Filed Under: 
Popular Culture
 
 








Reader Interactions
Primary Sidebar
Search this website


 
​




Latest News


Otter cub found CRYING on a doorstep is finally returned to the wild
The cub, named Gribun, was around eight-weeks-old when it was found and taken into the care of the …
 
[Read More...] 
about Otter cub found CRYING on a doorstep is finally returned to the wild
Harrison Ford came TERRIFYINGLY close to causing a CATASTROPHIC air disaster [VIDEO]
New video has emerged showing just how close Harrison Ford came to a fiery, mid-air disaster when he …
 
[Read More...] 
about Harrison Ford came TERRIFYINGLY close to causing a CATASTROPHIC air disaster [VIDEO]
‘Brilliant decision’: NRA earns major kudos for its new official spokesperson
The only question that comes to mind is, why on earth did it take this long?





It’s hard to …
 
[Read More...] 
about ‘Brilliant decision’: NRA earns major kudos for its new official spokesperson
Hissy Fit As British Parliament Debates Trump’s State Visit Invitation [VIDEO]
As we mentioned in passing a few weeks ago, a fashionable cause celebre among British lefties these …
 
[Read More...] 
about Hissy Fit As British Parliament Debates Trump’s State Visit Invitation [VIDEO]
NATO to US: Yes, sir, Mr. Trump [Video]
Candidate Donald Trump set off a furious controversy when he said NATO countries should pay their …
 
[Read More...] 
about NATO to US: Yes, sir, Mr. Trump [Video]
James O’Keefe hints that his next big target is CNN
Professional hidden camera stinger James O'Keefe revealed Tuesday that he is on the cusp of …
 
[Read More...] 
about James O’Keefe hints that his next big target is CNN
FURY As Liberals Deface Statue Of Liberty With Refugee Sign Twitter: Now they have moved on to defacing our National Monuments!
There really is no limit to what Liberals are willing to do these days, is there? I mean burning …
 
[Read More...] 
about FURY As Liberals Deface Statue Of Liberty With Refugee Sign Twitter: Now they have moved on to defacing our National Monuments!
Judge blocks Texas plan to cut Planned Parenthood Medicaid funding
A federal judge on Tuesday halted a Texas plan to cut off funding for Planned Parenthood from the …
 
[Read More...] 
about Judge blocks Texas plan to cut Planned Parenthood Medicaid funding
Marine Le Pen Cancels Meeting with Lebanon’s Grand Mufti – Refuses to Wear Head Scarf [Video]
French National Front leader Marine Le Pen canceled her meeting with Lebanan’s grand mufti after she …
 
[Read More...] 
about Marine Le Pen Cancels Meeting with Lebanon’s Grand Mufti – Refuses to Wear Head Scarf [Video]
Riots erupt in Sweden after Trump cites non-existent terror attack
Just two days after President Trump incorrectly claimed that a major terror attack occurred in …
 
[Read More...] 
about Riots erupt in Sweden after Trump cites non-existent terror attack
Iran DEMANDS US Woman’s Chess Champion To Wear Head Scarf At World Competition And She Tells Iran To STICK IT! [Video]
The reigning U.S. Women’s chess champion took a stand on behalf of women’s rights.

It was not an …
 
[Read More...] 
about Iran DEMANDS US Woman’s Chess Champion To Wear Head Scarf At World Competition And She Tells Iran To STICK IT! [Video]
Photo Going Viral Of Trump Ambassador Giving “Make America Great Again” Hat To A High Risk Muslim Countries President [Video]
Stephen Schwartz, the Obama-appointed U.S. ambassador to Somalia, gave President Mohamed Abdullahi …
 
[Read More...] 
about Photo Going Viral Of Trump Ambassador Giving “Make America Great Again” Hat To A High Risk Muslim Countries President [Video]


Footer
Contact Us


eHeadlines.com

590 Madison Avenue, 21st Floor,

Manhattan, New York, 10022


Click here to email:






Privacy and Terms


Welcome to eHeadlines.com. If you continue to browse and use this website you are agreeing to comply with and be bound by the following terms and conditions of use


Learn More




About Us


“eHeadlines.com – News You Can Use” is an online news website – www.eHeadlines.com – is more than just another website that amalgamates stories that are shared on social media. In addition to publishing current dynamic breaking news and in depth articles that educate, advise, motivate and encourage its readers...

Learn More




Copyright © 2017 · eHeadlines.com · all rights reserved · 
Log in
 ← Awesome Ad: Man Goes To Shooting Range – Appears Just A Novice… But… [VIDEO]
 ← Ginsburg wants to abolish the Electoral College
 


































































