





































































EDITION


US








عربي (Arabi)


Australia


Brasil


Canada


Deutschland


España


France


Ελλάδα (Greece)


India






Italia


日本 (Japan)


한국 (Korea)


Maghreb


México


Québec (En Francais)


South Africa


United Kingdom


United States












































NEWS







Highline


Science


Education


Weird News


Business






TestKitchen


Tech


College


Media












POLITICS







Pollster


Heroin Epidemic


Donald Trump


Racial Inequality


US Senate


Election Results






HuffPost Hill


Police Brutality


Hate Crimes


Supreme Court


Congress


So That Happened












ENTERTAINMENT







Entertainment


Comedy


Celebrity


TV






Arts + Culture


Backspace


Movies












LIFESTYLE







Healthy Living


Travel


Style


Taste






Home


Relationships


Sleep












IMPACT







Reclaim


Project Zero






HuffPost RYOT


Good News












VOICES







Black Voices


Latino Voices


Women






Fifty


Queer Voices


Parents












VIDEO




ALL SECTIONS







Arts + Culture


Black Voices


Books


Business


Candidate Confessional


Celebrity


College


Comedy


Crime


Divorce


Dolce Vita


Eat the Press






Education


Election Results


Entertainment


Fifty


Good News


Green


Healthy Living


Highline


Home


Horoscopes


HuffPost Data


HuffPost Hill






Impact


Latino Voices


Media


Newsletters


Outspeak


Parents


Politics


Pollster


Queer Voices


Religion


Science


Small Business






So That Happened


Sports


Style


Taste


Tech


Teen


TestKitchen


Travel


TV


Weddings


Weird News


Women






FEATURED


OWN


Paving the Way


The Power Of Humanity






Retire Well


Sleep + Wellness


What's Working: Purpose + Profit


WorldPost








































POLITICS





02/06/2017 04:26 pm ET

|



Updated

Feb 07, 2017







Teachers And Politicians Mount Final Push To Keep Betsy DeVos Away From Public Schools


The Senate will vote Tuesday on whether to confirm the controversial pick for U.S. Secretary of Education.














By Rebecca Klein






















 


















4.9k
































440




















In the last 24 hours before the U.S. Senate is set to vote on the confirmation of 
Betsy DeVos
 as Education Secretary, Democrats, parents and other public education advocates are making their final attempts to prevent her from heading the department.


All 48 Democratic senators are expected to vote against her confirmation. Two Republican senators ― Lisa Murkowski (Alaska) and Susan Collins (Maine) ― 
announced last week that they would also oppose the pick
. In the days since, constituents have flooded the phone lines of 
Republican senators in hopes
 of pushing the vote count to 51-49. While many of President Donald Trump’s cabinet nominees have generated substantial pushback, in the past few weeks DeVos has emerged as the most polarizing pick. 


If no other Republican votes against her, Vice President Mike Pence has said, he will cast the 
tie-breaking vote in favor of DeVos
. 


In the day before the vote, scheduled for Tuesday afternoon, Democratic senators are spending 24 hours straight speaking out against DeVos on the Senate floor. The effort is being led by Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the ranking member of the Senate HELP committee, which deals with health, education, labor and pensions. Murray has expressed vigorous opposition to DeVos.


“Hundreds of thousands have emailed or called their Senators — jamming phone lines, swamping the voicemail system and shattering records,” Murray said on the Senate floor Monday. “Millions have engaged on social media —sharing information with their friends, signing petitions, and pressuring their elected officials. Democrats will hold the floor for the next 24 hours, until the final vote, to do everything we can to persuade just one more Republican to join us. And I strongly encourage people across the country to join us — to double down on your advocacy.”


At the same time, some teachers mounted their own, silent protest inside their classrooms. Teachers across the country sometimes wear red to school to show support for public education. But on Monday, amid the lead-up to the DeVos vote, some wore black.


The push to get to teachers to wear black was started by a nonprofit group called the Badass Teachers Association, a nationwide network of teachers that works to promote policies supporting traditional public education. 


“We want to show people that ― people aren’t smiling, we don’t think this is really funny, it’s a dark, sad time for us if Congress thinks this woman is qualified,” said Marla Kilfoyle, a teacher on Long Island who also serves at the executive director of the association. 


The Lacey Township Education Association, Black out DeVos 
#DumpDevos
 
#proudtobeineducation
 
@NJEA
 
@njeawendell
 
@nea
 
pic.twitter.com/QKtMLPfwLU
— Michael Ryan (@LteaPres) 
February 6, 2017




Just sitting here, drinking my coffee, opposing a horrible choice for sec of education 
@marcorubio
 
#OpposeDeVos
 
#DumpDevos
 
#DeVosBlackOut
 
pic.twitter.com/YhMMQJYFLg
— Erin Everidge (@EvyNSBHS) 
February 6, 2017




Supporters of DeVos have sought to paint her detractors as tools of teachers unions, who, like DeVos, donate substantially to members of Congress. Indeed, the Badass Teachers Association has caucuses in the nation’s two biggest unions, although it is its own independent group. However, there is evidence that the fight against DeVos has inspired action from educators and parents who don’t typically get political. After receiving mainly 
poor marks for her confirmation hearing
 at the end of January, DeVos has faced a barrage of criticism for her seeming lack of qualifications and commitment to public education. Murkowski cited strong concerns from constituents as part of her reasoning for decided to oppose DeVos. 


DeVos, who has never formally worked in public schools, has spent decades advocating for education reform policies. She is a particular fan of policies that help charter schools and voucher programs, which use taxpayer money to pay for kids’ private schools. She has received strong support from establishment Republicans like Jeb Bush and Mitt Romney, as well as a handful of Democrats who work in education reform causes. Her supporters say that she is committed to changing the status quo in order to fix education, even if it means moving established norms.


“
Simply put, Betsy believes deeply that each child should be equipped with the knowledge to succeed in life,” 
Bush
 said. “And her passion runs deepest when it comes to extending this opportunity to disadvantaged children, those who struggle and fail in classrooms that don’t merit their needs while parents look on helpless to do anything about it.”


Democrats have also criticized her for 
extensive financial entanglements and potential conflict of interests
, although the Office of Government Ethics has cleared her. 


But DeVos seems to have struck a chord for casual observers of education, grassroots groups and high-profile celebrities, who have rallied against her on social media. On Saturday, actor George Takei used Twitter to call on followers to take the “DeVos pledge” and vote against senators who confirm DeVos. 


Take the DeVos pledge: If your senator votes to confirm, you will vote against their reelection and donate to their opponent.
— George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) 
February 4, 2017




 


 ― ― 


Rebecca Klein covers the challenges faced in school discipline, school segregation and the achievement gap in K-12 education. Tips? Email: 
Rebecca.Klein@
huffingtonpost.com
.




――


Related Coverage:


Teachers Scrap Lesson Plans To Tackle Trump’s Executive Order


Activists Are Rallying To Stop Betsy DeVos From Running The Country’s Public Schools


How Trump’s Education Department Could Actually Help Some Muslim Schools


Teachers Struggle To Reassure Kids About Living In Trump’s America


With Trump’s Win, Teachers Worry About Emboldened Classroom Bullies


These Teachers Think Trump Can Make America Great For Kids Again
 




 












Do you have information you want to share with the Huffington Post? 
Here’s how.


















Suggest a correction












Rebecca Klein









Education Editor, The Huffington Post













MORE:


Donald Trump
 
U.S. News
 
Political Science
 
Senate
 
Democratic Party
















































CONVERSATIONS






































Close


















SUBSCRIBE TO & FOLLOW TRUMP'S FIRST 100 DAYS








How will Donald Trump’s first 100 days impact YOU? Subscribe, choose the community that you most identify with or want to learn more about and we’ll send you the news that matters most once a week throughout Trump’s first 100 days in office.


Learn more








Newsletter
















































2.04 M










1.12 M










470 K










Podcast










Add us on Snapchat


































Teachers And Politicians Mount Final Push To Keep Betsy DeVos Away From Public Schools










4.9k
































440


































NEW! HIGHLIGHT AND SHARE


Highlight text to share via Facebook and Twitter






































Advertise






RSS






Careers






FAQ










User Agreement






Privacy






Comment Policy






About Us






About Our Ads






Contact Us






Archive






Copyright © 2017 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.    "The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.  All rights reserved.


Part of HuffPost • HPMG News














































































































