
















































































































































Posts













Terms & Conditions






Privacy Policy









































Hide Your Kids, Anti-Public School Billionaire Betsy DeVos To Be Confirmed











Getty Images











By



Maria Elena





|






February 07, 2017










Share this article




























































SHARE






TWEET





The Senate is scheduled to vote Tuesday on the confirmation of clueless anti-public school billionaire Betsy DeVos as education secretary.


Despite the major backlash DeVos has received, the vote is expected to be a 50-50 tie that will be broken with a vote from Vice President Mike Pence, a DeVos supporter. 


All 48 Democratic senators are expected to vote against DeVos, along with Republicans Lisa Murkowski (Alaska) and Susan Collins (Maine). This leaves us with 50 Republicans who will most likely vote for DeVos.


“We’re very confident that Betsy DeVos is going to be the next secretary of education and it’ll be my high honor to cast the deciding vote on the floor of the Senate next week,” Pence said on Fox News Sunday.




DeVos has ZERO experience in public education or elected office, making both politicians and citizens shake their heads in disapproval. 


Her only "qualifications" are that she's a billionaire and a huge republican donor. If you look at her track record, she's used her wealth to advocate for alternatives to public schools and prefers private schooling, which is a nightmare most families cannot afford.


If DeVos becomes education secretary, she would most likely give financial help to families so their children can go to religious private school instead of giving financial help to families so their children can go to college.


DeVos never took out a student loan for her children because she could afford to pay for their college upfront, so she doesn't even understand what most people have to go through to get an education. 


We can cross our fingers that another Republican will come around and vote against DeVos, but as of now, public schools are in danger.







SHARE






TWEET














Fresh content delivered straight to your inbox




















Like Team Smiley on Facebook!









SEE COMMENTS







































































Click here to get alerts of the latest stories
















SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER








































Advertise







Privacy Policy






Terms & Conditions











Powered By FanBread










Interactive One Millennial





































