







































































 
































































Splitsider








Features


News


Splitsider Presents


About


Contact


Twitter


Facebook


Instagram


Search














Late Night



					Trevor Noah Congratulates New US President Steve Bannon on ‘The Daily Show’				



					By 
Megh Wright
 
February 7, 2017








 








































 




Here’s a clip from last night’s 
Daily Show,
 where Trevor Noah takes a closer look at Donald Trump’s chief strategist Steve Bannon, whose rise in influence and power over Trump has made the 
Daily Show
 staff and many members of the press to believe that he’s really the new POTUS and just using Trump as a puppet to push through his own agenda, such as the “dick move” Muslim ban and appointing himself to the National Security Council without Trump’s knowledge. And now that the press has caught on to Bannon’s power, Trump is on edge. “Trump’s defensiveness is telling. It shows that even he realizes he needs to prove he’s in control. And maybe someday he will be,” Noah says. “But for now, let’s congratulate Steve Bannon. As of this moment, you are the real president. The American people didn’t elect you, but then again, they kind of didn’t elect Trump either.”











				Share
							











				Tweet
							






 


 










 






Subscribe To Splitsider












Get the best of Splitsider in your inbox.












 




















Most Popular






1.





						Check Out Mark Proksch and Jason Woliner’s Unaired 2013 Pilot ‘Good Morning Tri-State’					








2.





						Watch the Trailer for Seth Meyers’s Riveting New Film ‘Oscar Bait’					








3.





						Netflix Adds Two Standup Specials from Louis C.K.					








4.





						Adam Pally and Rachel Bloom to Star in ‘Most Likely to Murder’ Mystery Comedy					








5.





						The ‘MST3K’ Revival Premieres on Netflix in April					




























comedy central
donald trump
late night
politics
steve bannon
the daily show with trevor noah
tv
 






 






More ...














The Rise of Consumer Comedy
















20 Years Later, Looking Back at the Twisted Genius of 
Ren and Stimpy
















The Sexual Proclivities of 
Friends
















The Next Wave 2015: The Top Up-and-Coming Comics in Los Angeles
















How the Legal Marijuana Industry Is Helping Grow Denver’s Comedy Scene
















The Annotated Wisdom of Amy Poehler
















The Lost Roles of Bill Murray
















A Video Guide to ‘SNL’s New Cast Member, Sasheer Zamata












 






From Our Partners




























































