





































































Fox News


Fox Business


Fox News Go


Fox News Radio


Fox Nation


Fox News Insider














Fox News
Politics


Expand/Collapse Search
























Home


Video


Politics


U.S.


Opinion


Business


Entertainment


Tech


Science


Health


Travel


Lifestyle


World


On Air



























                            Politics Home
                        







                            Executive
                        







                            Senate
                        







                            House
                        







                            Defense
                        







                            Judiciary
                        







                            Fox News Poll
                        














Appointments


DeVos confirmed as education secretary, Pence casts historic tie-breaking vote






Published
		            February 07, 2017




FoxNews.com












Facebook
0


Twitter
0


livefyre


Email


Print






















 










School choice advocate Betsy DeVos was narrowly confirmed Tuesday as the next education secretary despite deep opposition from teachers unions and other groups, after Vice President Pence intervened to cast a historic tie-breaking vote.


Pence’s vote marked the first time in American history a vice president has broken a tie on a Cabinet nominee’s Senate confirmation – and the first tie-breaking vote by a VP since 2008. Pence was compelled to cast the vote after two Republican senators – Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska – joined all 48 Senate Democrats in opposing DeVos. 


“The Senate being equally divided, the vice president votes in the affirmative and the nomination is confirmed,” Pence said, stepping into his role as president of the Senate in a brief appearance on Capitol Hill.


With his support, DeVos was confirmed on a 51-50 vote. 


Devos was sworn in later by Pence in a ceremony at the vice president's ceremonial office, which he called "the easiest vote I ever cast."   


The confirmation of the wealthy GOP donor will mark a sharp change in philosophy at the helm of federal education policy, given DeVos’ history boosting alternatives to public education. 


“She’s led the most effective school reform movement of the last 30 years,” Senate education committee Chairman Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., said moments earlier on the floor, shoring up DeVos' Republican support. 


Democrats mounted an all-night speaking marathon railing against her nomination in the run-up to the vote, questioning her experience and ties to charter schools though their opposition combined with lobbying efforts by teachers unions were not enough to block her.


"Mrs. DeVos demonstrated a complete lack of experience in, knowledge of and support for public education. She was unable to address basic issues that any New Hampshire school board member could discuss fluently," said Sen. Maggie Hassan, D-N.H., whose son has cerebral palsy but studied in public schools under a federal law that guarantees access for disabled students. Several Democrats questioned DeVos' commitment to and understanding of that law.


But Republicans accused Democrats of slow-walking DeVos and other qualified nominees to placate liberal base voters who still haven't come to terms with President Trump's election.


StartClass | Graphiq


"[Democrats are] trying to humiliate and embarrass some of these nominees," White House Counselor Kellyanne Conway told Fox News earlier Tuesday, saying DeVos is committed to education.


"It seems this gridlock and opposition has far less to do with the nominees actually before us than the man who nominated them," said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. "Enough is enough."


In addition to DeVos, Republicans hope to confirm a series of other controversial nominees this week. They successfully broke a Democratic filibuster Tuesday afternoon on the nomination of Sen. Jeff Sessions for attorney general. The 52-47 vote sets up the Alabama Republican for likely confirmation Wednesday evening. 


The Senate Veterans Affairs' Committee also endorsed physician David Shulkin to be veterans affairs secretary, sending his nomination to the full Senate. 


Also awaiting floor votes are GOP Rep. Tom Price of Georgia for health secretary and financier Steven Mnuchin for treasury secretary.


In each case Democrats intend to use the maximum time allowed under the Senate's arcane rules to debate the nominations, which may result in a late-night votes this week and delay Mnuchin's approval until Saturday.


Republicans complain that previous presidents have been able to put their Cabinets in place more quickly. Democrats say it's Trump's fault because many of his nominees have complicated financial arrangements and ethical entanglements they claim they have not had enough time to dissect.


The Associated Press contributed to this report. 


















Advertisement






















Trending in Politics








1




Trump administration 'deeply disappointed' over imminent extradition of former CIA agent








2




Feds paid $1 billion in Social Security benefits to individuals without a SSN








3




DHS deportation shift fuels Mexico tensions ahead of Tillerson trip








4




Trump administration working on new transgender bathroom directive








5




Jesse Jackson Jr. released from halfway house in Baltimore














































































Site Index






Sections




Home


Video


Politics


U.S.


Opinion


Entertainment


Tech


Science


Health


Travel


Lifestyle


World


Sports


Weather


On Air








Tools




Live Video


Trending


Newsletters


Alerts


Blogs


Mobile


Podcasts


Radio


Apps & Downloads








About




Careers


College Students


Fox Around the World


Advertise With Us


New Terms of Use 
 
(What's New)


New Privacy Policy


Ad Choices


Contact Us


Email Newsroom


FAQ


Media Relations








Follow




Facebook


Twitter


Google+


LinkedIn


RSS


Newsletters










Fox News


Back to Top




This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2017 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes. 
New Privacy
 - 
New Terms of Use
 
(What's New)
 - 
FAQ




















