





































































































Coming Up!


Title text for next article


























 
Live: US-East
 
Connecting ...








 My Preferences






























 Technical Analysis 






 Calendar
 Economic Calendar


 Forex Brokers


 Education


 Social Trading




 More 




 Forex Brokers


 Education


 Central Banks


 Live Quotes


 Live Charts


 Forex Orders


 Session Wraps


 Forex Tools


 Forex Jargon


 About ForexLive






















Looking for a new forex broker? 
 
Compare Brokers
 








































































































































Senate confirms Betsy Devos as Education Secretary


 
 
Tue 7 Feb 2017 17:37:07 
GMT
 
Author:
 
Adam Button
 | 
Category:
 
 News




















share
























Devos overcomes Democratic opposition
Devos was a megadonor and two Republicans came out against her nomination last week. That left the Senate deadlocked. Mike Pence was forced to cast a rare tie-breaking vote.
Democrats ran a 24-hour filibuster to stop her because of her stance on privatizing school services.
Next on the list for nominations are Jeff Sessions and attorney general, Tom Price for Health and Human Services and Steve Mnuhcin for Treasury Secretary. They will be handled on at a time.
They should all be confirmed by Saturday or next Monday at the latest.


























































LON 
GMT
 


SDNY
+11
 


NY 
EDT-4
 
 


TYO 
+9
 
 


GMT 
 
 








 Must Read




Is the Fed hike view conditional on good data, or not getting bad data?


Preview: FOMC Minutes Likely To Provide Another Hawkish Signal - BTMU


 Trading Session Wraps






















 Technical Analysis 




Forex technical analysis: GBPJPY trying to find it's way


Forex technical analysis: EURGBP back up testing the 200 day MA


Forex technical analysis: EURJPY reverses hard.


Forex technical analysis: EURUSD...Fast break the other way


USD/CAD backs off February high after weak retail sales data






















 Forex Orders




AUDUSD orders 22 Feb


EURJPY orders 22 Feb


USDJPY orders 22 Feb


GBPUSD orders 22 Feb


EURGBP orders 22 Feb




























 Central Banks




Fed's Powell: Rate hike path based on economy roughly meeting forecast


10 banks weigh in ahead of today's FOMC Minutes


Is the Fed hike view conditional on good data, or not getting bad data?


Latest BOC survey sees earlier hike


BOE's Shafik: " We face a trade-off and need to see what happens to the economy and how temporary inflation will be"




















;

            


















About Us


All the biggest trading floors in the world have screens locked on ForexLive™. We provide real-time forex news and analysis at the highest level while making it accessible for less-experienced traders.


 Learn About ForexLive


 Contact Us








Stay Connected


Connect with forexlive via:




























































































Looking for our RSS feed?






























Premier forex trading news site


Founded in 2008, ForexLive.com is the premier forex trading news site offering interesting commentary, opinion and analysis for true FX trading professionals. Get the latest breaking foreign exchange trade news and current updates from active traders daily. ForexLive.com blog posts feature leading edge technical analysis charting tips, forex analysis, and currency pair trading tutorials. Find out how to take advantage of swings in global foreign exchange markets and see our real-time forex news analysis and reactions to central bank news, economic indicators and world events.










 2017 - Live Analytics Inc
 
v.0.8.2659











                HIGH RISK WARNING: Foreign exchange trading carries a high level of risk that may not be suitable for all investors. Leverage creates additional risk and loss exposure. Before you decide to trade foreign exchange, carefully consider your investment objectives, experience level, and risk tolerance. You could lose some or all of your initial investment; do not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. Educate yourself on the risks associated with foreign exchange trading, and seek advice from an independent financial or tax advisor if you have any questions.
            



                ADVISORY WARNING: FOREXLIVE™ provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information. Clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect's individual analysis and decision making. None of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record. Past performance is no guarantee of future results and FOREXLIVE™ specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors, bloggers, money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with any Forex dealer. Any news, opinions, research, data, or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice. FOREXLIVE™ expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information. As with all such advisory services, past results are never a guarantee of future results.
            
























Viewing 
 
Touch / Click anywhere to close 






































