 




























































This site uses cookies. By continuing, your consent is assumed. 
Learn more
















News... but not as you know it




108
m
 shares
 




News


Sport


Trending






Home




Trending






News




UK


World


Weird


Tech






Sport




Football


Rumour Mill


PL Table


Oddballs


Club Metro






Entertainment




Showbiz


TV


Film


Music


Gaming


Celebrity Big Brother


Soaps






Lifestyle




Sex


Fashion


Food


Travel






Video


More




Lifestyle


Blogs


Students


Submit stuff


Competitions


Jobs


Property






Search Metro




Follow us






















































Pink defends Lady Gaga’s Super Bowl performance after fans accuse the star of copying her




Kelly Jade for Metro.co.uk
Tuesday 7 Feb 2017 1:04 pm
 






















Pink has got Lady Gaga’s back (Picture: Getty; Metro.co.uk)


Pink has taken a stand against internet trolls putting down Lady Gaga’s Super Bowl performance after they accused her of copying the singer.


Sponsored
12 of David Emanuel’s most hilarious faces from Say Yes To The Dress


Nothing better than pop stars sticking up for each other is there?


The latest comes in the form of the So What! singer having Lady Gaga’s back after online bullies hit out at her, saying that she had copied Pink by flying through the air whilst performing.


The 37-year-old star shared a note with all of her followers, showing her upset regarding the negative comments floating around the web.


She began: ‘Let’s squash this before it even has chance to be a thing…Lady Gaga killed it yesterday.’










 
#womensupportingwomen #happymonday #letsnotgetdistracted


A post shared by P!NK (@pink) on 
Feb 6, 2017 at 1:34pm PST






‘Her voice was powerful and beautiful, her outfits were on point, choreography stellar, her heart was in it and she sang about love and inclusiveness, all in front of millions and millions of people.’


She then moved onto the technicalities of the performance, and the courage the star had shown.


‘Lets celebrate a woman who has the guts to jump off a roof, and stand up there in the first place.’


Pink, like Gaga, has also flown whilst performing (Pictures: Getty)


Giving a nod to her own career and those calling Gaga a copycat, Pink commented that Gaga flying in her performance didn’t matter whatsoever.


‘Who cares if I flew first? Cause I didn’t!’


She joked: ‘Cirque and Peter Pan been in the air for years!’




The star then brought her post to a close by bluntly sharing her opinion on President Trump, or as she would say the ‘real controversy.’


‘Now can we get back to the real controversy? The one where our so called leader is stripping our humanity away minute by minute…’


She then captioned her note: ‘ #womensupportingwomen #happymonday #letsnotgetdistracted’




Lady Gaga took to the Super Bowl stage over the weekend
, with an impressive entrance where she threw herself from the roof onto a podium in the middle of the crowd.


Not only did she fly above the crowd whilst singing a medley of her hits, but 
she also managed to throw a political message into the mix too
.


We think this is a dazzling story and so do you! Like 
Metro Entertainment
 on Facebook for more of this on your news feed.


MORE: 
Lady Gaga announces Joanne World Tour 2017 following Super Bowl performance


MORE: 
Lady Gaga to launch her own brand of wine






























































More
Lady Gaga
Pink
Super Bowl
 
Metallica confirm their Grammys duet with Lady Gaga was 'too real' to not continue
Marnie Simpson posts heart-breaking video after discovering Lewis Bloor cheated
Trinny Woodall follows up outrageous This Morning behaviour with accidental boob flash
This Hollywood couple might have just come up with the stupidest baby name of all time
Video footage shows Harrison Ford missed crashing his plane in California by a whisker
Howard Donald welcomes his fourth child into the world - and he's got the cutest name
MORE: 
Lady Gaga tickets for UK tour 2017 on sale this week: Where to get them and pre-sale information
MORE: 
Lady Gaga announces Joanne World Tour 2017 following Super Bowl performance
MORE: 
Did The Simpsons predict Lady Gaga’s half-time show in 2012?
 




Comments
		




































 


Must read
 






 


















































































What's trending now
More trending stories 
»
Ben Price admits that his decision to leave Coronation Street was 'for his family'
Tom Hardy already recorded THREE more CBeebies Bedtime Stories because life is beautiful
There's no Emmerdale tonight but it's not all bad news
Trinny Woodall follows up outrageous This Morning behaviour with accidental boob flash
Marnie Simpson posts heart-breaking video after discovering Lewis Bloor cheated
More trending stories 
»
 






 


 























					YOU ARE HERE:
					




Showbiz




›






Lady Gaga




































Home


News


Sport


Lifestyle


Entertainment


More




Blogs


Jobs






Search Metro


 




Trending












MetroUK


@MetroUK






© 2017 Associated Newspapers Limited


Powered by 
WordPress.com VIP
 
Your ad choices




Contributors
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Site map






Back to top






 


 








Get us in your feed


Like us on Facebook


Follow us on Twitter


































Post to








Cancel
















 


































































