 














































































 
 








































↓
 


 



JAVASCRIPT IS DISABLED. Please enable JavaScript on your browser to best view this site.









		heave-ho.org






Search for:








 
all the news that's fit to click!™














Home


Digits


Privacy


Shopping












Post navigation


←
 &#039;We&#039;ll destroy his career,&#039; Trump quips about a Texas state senator at odds with a county sheriff
 


19 Things Nintendo’s President Told Us About Switch and More 
→
 






Rosie O’Donnell Says She’s ‘Available’ to Play Steve Bannon on Saturday Night Live






Posted on 
February 7, 2017
 
 by 
 
Cady Lang
February 7, 2017







This 
post
 was originally published on 
this site








With 
Alec Baldwin playing Donald Trump
 and now 
Melissa McCarthy portraying White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer
, 
Saturday Night Live
 has landed some truly memorable celebrity cameos for their political sketches. If they’re in the market for another high-profile comedic turn in the future, however, Rosie O’Donnell is volunteering as tribute.
Following 
a 
Politico 
report
 on the White House’s alleged response to this week’s 
SNL
 parodies, people on the internet started dreamcasting the White House roles, with one interesting idea: casting Rosie O’Donnell as Steve Bannon.
O’Donnell for her part, is ready and willing to step up to the role if duty calls. The actor, 
a long-time foe of Trump
, responded on Twitter to fans who suggested that she take on a Bannon parody on Monday, writing that she was “available — if called, I will serve!”






available – if called i will serve !!! 
https://t.co/LT84EJjfsw


— ROSIE (@Rosie) 
February 7, 2017












@calvininsf
 – i am here to serve – alec has trump – melissa has spice – i would need a few days to prepare – so if called – i will be ready


— ROSIE (@Rosie) 
February 7, 2017






The actress later reminded fans that this was just an idea and that nothing was definite.






@2020fight
 – no – that’s an alternate fact – someone tweeted it as an idea – after Melissa was so brilliant … just a funny idea 
#truth


— ROSIE (@Rosie) 
February 7, 2017






Share






Posted in
 
News
 


permalink






Post navigation


←
 &#039;We&#039;ll destroy his career,&#039; Trump quips about a Texas state senator at odds with a county sheriff


19 Things Nintendo’s President Told Us About Switch and More 
→


Comments are closed.






Search for:








 
iTunes Store: Top Paid Books in Politics & Current Events
Insane Clown President - Matt Taibbi & Victor Juhasz
Thank You for Being Late - Thomas L. Friedman
The Plot to Hack America - Malcolm Nance
A Very Expensive Poison - Luke Harding
Big Agenda - David Horowitz
The U.S. Constitution with The Declaration of Independence and The Articles of Confederation - The Founding Fathers
Dark Money - Jane Mayer
Defeating Jihad - Sebastian Gorka
The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again - Todd Starnes
Captured - Sheldon Whitehouse
 
 Enter your Email: 
 
 
 






 


Preview
 | Powered by 
FeedBlitz


 


 


 
iTunes Store: Top Audiobooks
How to Win Friends & Influence People (Unabridged) - Dale Carnegie
Empire's End: Aftermath: Star Wars (Unabridged) - Chuck Wendig
The Shack (Unabridged) - William P. Young
Hillbilly Elegy: A Memoir of a Family and Culture in Crisis (Unabridged) - J. D. Vance
Your Money or Your Life: 9 Steps to Transforming Your Relationship with Money and Achieving Financial Independence - Vicki Robin
The Four Agreements (Unabridged) - Don Miguel Ruiz
The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck: A Counterintuitive Approach to Living a Good Life (Unabridged) - Mark Manson
The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream (Unabridged) - Paulo Coelho
Big Little Lies (Unabridged) - Liane Moriarty
Killing the Rising Sun: How America Vanquished World War II Japan (Unabridged) - Bill O'Reilly & Martin Dugard
 


 
iTunes Store: Top Paid Books in Fiction & Literature
Small Great Things - Jodi Picoult
Big Little Lies - Liane Moriarty
The Shack - William P. Young
Norse Mythology - Neil Gaiman
The Marriage Lie - Kimberly Belle
Grey - E L James
The Seekers - John Jakes
A Gentleman in Moscow - Amor Towles
My Not So Perfect Life - Sophie Kinsella
Milk and Honey - Rupi Kaur
 
 
Recent Posts
 




Guiding my African American children through the next four years






With allergy season around the corner, educate yourself now






Forget the EGOT: Only 22 actors have accomplished this more impressive feat






An argument for the color that makes everybody look (and feel) good






I nag, my tween complains — how do we end the struggle over chores?






 
My Tweets
 


Follow @heavehoorg on Twitter
My Tweets
 


 
 Enter your Email: 
 
 
 






 


Preview
 | Powered by 
FeedBlitz


 


 
iTunes Store: Top Paid Books
The Girl Before - J.P. Delaney
Devil in Spring - Lisa Kleypas
Big Little Lies - Liane Moriarty
The Shack - William P. Young
Roman - Sawyer Bennett
Dereliction of Duty - H. R. Mcmaster
Whisper of Love - Melissa Foster
Echoes in Death - J.D. Robb
Empire's End: Aftermath (Star Wars) - Chuck Wendig
The Marriage Lie - Kimberly Belle
 


My Tweets
 



©2017 - 
heave-ho.org
 
 




 -
			
Weaver Xtreme Theme


 


 


↑


