





























NYMag.com


Daily Intelligencer


Vulture


The Cut


Science of Us


Select All


Grub Street


The Strategist






Log In


Register










My Account


My Profile


My Comments


My Reviews


My Friends


Sign Out










FOLLOW:


Facebook


Twitter


Instagram




























 


Subscribe
 to New York Magazine


Give a Gift
 Subscription of New York Magazine


Digital Edition
 of New York Magazine






Like Us


Follow Us




Get the Newsletter






Newsletter


Get Daily Intelligencerʼs Top Stories Delivered Daily








Enter your email






Thank you for signing up!


An error occurred. Please try again.






Close the newsletter signup modal.










Subscribe
 to New York Magazine












 
NYMag.com


 
Daily Intelligencer


 
Vulture


 
The Cut


 
Science of Us


 
Select All


 
Grub Street


 
Bedford & Bowery






Like Us


Follow Us




Get the Newsletter






Newsletter


Get Daily Intelligencerʼs Top Stories Delivered Daily








Enter your email






Thank you for signing up!


An error occurred. Please try again.






Close the newsletter signup modal.










































Popular on NYMag.com






















Ad will collapse in
      
 seconds…
    


CLOSE




























































/
drama


February 4, 2017


02/04/2017


3:26 p.m.


White House Denies Report That Bannon Had to Be Reminded He Wasn’t President Amidst Travel-Ban Chaos


By 




Chas Danner














Share




Share




Tweet




Share




Pin It




Email




Comment






Print
























Bannon may have been trying to give orders that not everyone was interested in taking.




Photo: Win McNamee/Getty Images








Chief White House strategist Steve Bannon tried to order Department of Homeland Security secretary John Kelly to not issue a waiver exempting green-card holders from President Trump’s travel-ban executive order, 
according to a report 
— which the White House is denying — in the Washington 
Post
. Per two Trump administration officials who spoke with the 
Post
’s Josh Rogin, Kelly apparently rebuffed the attempt, telling Bannon that he only takes orders from the president. The president never weighed in, and Kelly went ahead and issued the waiver, which was made public on Sunday night, ending two full days of confusion and chaos around the question of whether or not permanent U.S. residents from the seven predominantly Muslim nations included in the ban would be allowed to reenter the country. The White House itself then confirmed that green-card holders were exempt from the order on Tuesday.


Rogin’s post has undergone a series of revisions since it was published early Saturday, mainly because he didn’t request comment from the White House before publishing the story, and once the White House weighed in, press secretary Sean Spicer denied most of what Rogin’s sources had reported. Despite the revisions, Rogin and the 
Post
 seem to be standing by the central thrust of the piece — that two administration officials say that Bannon and Kelly had a disagreement over issuing the waiver for green-card holders, and Kelly told Bannon that only President Trump could order him to back off on the waiver. Originally, the 
Post
 report said that Bannon had even made an unscheduled visit to Kelly’s office on Saturday over the issue, but that was later removed from the story. Spicer and Bannon both deny that any confrontation ever occurred, and Spicer went so far as 
to tell the Huffington Post
 that the whole report a “patently false, made up story” and that it was “unbelievably unprofessional” for Rogin and the 
Post
 to not seek comment from the White House before publishing.


That being acknowledged, Rogin’s unnamed sources also said that cabinet officials had banded together during a 2 a.m. phone call among senior White House staff on Sunday to oppose the haphazard way the president’s executive order had been conceived and implemented by the White House’s 
growing
 Breitbart wing, Bannon and White House senior policy adviser Stephen Miller. Then at a larger meeting on Sunday, White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus ordered a temporary suspension of the issuing of additional executive orders until better procedures — as in ones that were inclusive of more White House voices — could be put in place. (Rogin originally reported that Trump himself had made that decision, but apparently it was Priebus, and Spicer denies that a pause was ordered — just new procedures.)








If Rogin’s reporting is accurate — and again, the White House insists it’s not — Bannon would seem to have lost an important early power struggle, though not for lack of trying. Last weekend, CNN 
reported
 that the DHS had finished a legal analysis of the travel-ban order on Friday and concluded that it did not apply to green-card holders, but that the White House, and more specifically Bannon and Miller, had overruled that conclusion. On Friday and Saturday, Trump administration officials ended up sending mixed signals as to whether or not permanent residents were to be allowed onto planes to the U.S., as well as whether or not they would face extra screening, or have to apply for a waiver somehow, to gain re-entry to the U.S. As a result, many of these travelers were stranded and detained, ultimately for no reason.














According to Rogin’s sources, Bannon — who has 
previously indicated
 that he would like to get rid of all legal immigration — attempted to intervene with Kelly over the issue at some point over the weekend, possibly in addition to the attempts at shaping the implementation of the ban that are reflected in CNN’s reporting. Rogin’s story also ties in with this week’s 
TIME
 cover story
 asserting that Bannon’s contributions to the tumult of the new administration’s first few weeks “has rattled the West Wing and perhaps even dismayed the President,” and that the controversy was leading to a slowing of the pace of the new administration’s agenda.


Though some in the White House have tried, there is virtually no way to spin the disastrous rollout of the travel ban as a success — unless confusion, mass protests, and inner-circle backstabbing was the desired outcome. Several reports have indicated that the travel-ban order was hastily and incompetently written, barely reviewed, and implemented and communicated with next to no planning. So far, the blame seems to have landed on the Trump administration’s Breitbart wing. And while there doesn’t seem to be any evidence of Bannon or Miller’s influence diminishing, there are at least some indications that other White House cabinet members are pushing to confront them.


Then again, it’s also important to realize that, as 
The Atlantic
’s Rosie Gray 
points out
, most of these unnamed Trump officials are leaking negative stories about Miller and Bannon in an attempt to limit their influence in the administration. Indeed, it should go without saying that almost every leak that comes from these White House or Trump administration officials (who always wish to remain anonymous) should be understood as having some ulterior motive beyond simple transparency with the public. Understanding that, the fact that the Breitbart wing is being widely and specifically scapegoated for the travel-ban fallout likely illustrates how powerful it has already become.


This post has been updated throughout to reflect multiple revisions to the underlying 
Washington 
Post story, as well as denials of major aspects of the reporting from the White House.




Tags:


steve bannon
trump administration
politics
travel ban
john kelly
drama
early and often
More


White House Denies Report of Bannon-Kelly Confrontation






Share 
on 
Facebook






Tweet 
this 
Story
















 


Top Stories
Rand Paul Has Become Trump’s Most Loyal Toady
These Republicans Faced ‘So-Called Angry Crowds’ at Tuesday’s Town Halls
Donald Trump, Pseudoauthoritarian






























Most Viewed Stories














All the Famous People Wear This Invisible Underwear












Trump Is Unpopular, But Not As Unpopular As Liberals Think












This Is Us
 Recap: The First and the Last












Cate Blanchett Lip-Synced ‘You Don’t Own Me’ at a Drag Show, Giving the People Exactly What They Want












What, Exactly, Are Melania and Ivanka Trump Trying to Sell?












A Conversation With YouTube’s Favorite 10-Year-Old Communist Vlogger












Ask Polly: I Overshared My Way Out of a Boyfriend!












John McCain the Republican vs. John McCain the Patriot












Rand Paul Has Become Trump’s Most Loyal Stooge












What It’s Like to Live in a Trump Building




































Most Popular Video On Daily Intelligencer


The Wildest Moments From Donald Trump’s Press Conference 


























































Latest News from Daily Intelligencer








11:52 a.m.


Republicans Accuse Protesters of Organizing for Political Change


Conservatives are now arguing that protests are illegitimate if they’re planned in advance by activists.






10:25 a.m.


Iowa Legislator Proposes Hiring Quotas for Republican College Faculty


After decades of conservative whining about liberal domination of college faculties, a legislator has finally come up with a solution.






9:11 a.m.


Rand Paul Has Become Trump’s Most Loyal Toady


The task of suppressing dissent against the president’s authoritarian tendencies falls to the GOP’s libertarian.






8:00 a.m.


What It’s Like to Live in a Trump Building


The protesters, the new frisson, and the extremely clean floors.












6:27 a.m.


These Republicans Faced ‘So-Called Angry Crowds’ at Tuesday’s Town Halls


While scores of GOP lawmakers are avoiding their constituents, a handful attended packed public events back home.






1:00 a.m.


Timing of Trump Immigration Memos Undermines Cabinet Members’ Visit to Mexico


They were released just as Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly headed south.






Yesterday at 5:21 p.m.


Trump’s Immigration Policies Have Already Taken a Toll on the U.S. Economy


The American tourism industry is still reeling from Trump’s travel ban.






Yesterday at 5:15 p.m.


A ‘Refugees Welcome’ Banner Was Hanging on the Statue of Liberty Today


Challenging Trump’s travel ban.






Yesterday at 5:12 p.m.


When Will Trump Announce a Policy Agenda? Maybe Never.


Trump has an opportunity to lay out a detailed policy agenda on February 28 to a joint session of Congress — which needs the guidance. But will he?






Yesterday at 2:42 p.m.


Administration Rattles Sabers at Undocumented Immigrants


Maybe the plan is to deport millions, or frighten the undocumented into self-deporting. Either way, a big shift in immigration policy is underway.
























Yesterday at 1:49 p.m.


Malaysia Can’t Say for Sure If Kim Jong-un’s Half-Brother Was Poisoned


Authorities are awaiting lab results while North Korea accuses Malaysia of “mangling” the autopsy.






Yesterday at 1:40 p.m.


Trump Is Unpopular, But Not As Unpopular As Liberals Think


Are Trump’s historically low approval ratings high enough for Republicans to avoid a 2018 disaster? Probably so, but there’s not much room for error.






Yesterday at 1:25 p.m.


Trump to Tackle Deficit With Imaginary Growth, Elimination of Popular Programs


The president is poised to pay for his tax cuts by baselessly assuming 3 percent economic growth and eliminating public broadcasting. 






Yesterday at 12:09 p.m.


Donald Trump, Pseudoauthoritarian


Assessing the not-so-great dictator one month into his tenure.






Yesterday at 11:02 a.m.


Trump Manages to Denounce Rise of Anti-Semitic Incidents Without Taking Offense


Finally abandoning a habit of attacking reporters who asked him about anti-Semitic incidents, Trump simply addressed the subject appropriately.






Yesterday at 10:56 a.m.


Selfie-Taking Teens Rescued After Falling Through Ice in Central Park Pond


No one suffered life-threatening injuries.






Yesterday at 8:00 a.m.


Sports May Never Be a Politics-Free Zone Again


Patriots shun the White House. Sports stars turn ESPN into MSNBC. And brands smell the commercial potential in political rage.






Yesterday at 5:27 a.m.


11 People Went Through JFK Security Without Being Screened


It took the TSA two hours to report the accidental security breach to Port Authority police.






Yesterday at 4:10 a.m.


President Trump Faces Pressure to Address Rash of Threats Against Jewish Centers


Ivanka Trump and the White House issued statements, but the president has not discussed the incidents specifically.






Yesterday at 12:23 a.m.


Eric Holder, Uber Employees to Conduct ‘Independent Review’ of Sexism Claims


The company is moving fast following harassment allegations from a former employee.




























Newsletters








Facebook








Twitter








Instagram








RSS








Feedly








Privacy


Terms


Sitemap


Media Kit


Ad Choices


About Us


Contacts


Feedback


We’re Hiring!





    © 2017, New York Media LLC.
    
View all trademarks




























LOG IN


REGISTER










Social Account


Facebook


or















              Remember Me
            


Forgot Password?










Sign up with a social account:


Facebook


Don’t worry. We will 
never
 post to your social media account without your permission.


or create an account
















Female


Male










NYMag.com may email me about new site features and special offers.








By creating an account, you agree with the 
Terms of Service
 and 
Privacy Policy
.














We’ve sent a registration confirmation email to 
.


Please follow the instructions in the email within 48 hours to complete your registration.






Forgot Your Password?


Enter your email address or username and we’ll email instructions on how to reset your password.
















This username or email is associated with a Facebook account.


Log in with your social account:


Facebook






Check Your Inbox


We’ve sent you an email with instructions on how to reset your password.






Choose a Username


Your username will appear next to your comments.










Email: 





            By creating a NYMag.com account, you agree with the 
Terms of Service
 and
            
Privacy Policy
.
          








You already have an account registered under 
. You can link your Facebook account to your existing account.












No, Sign In






Welcome! You are now a registered user of NYMag.com, TheCut.com, Vulture.com, ScienceOfUs.com and GrubStreet.com.


Want more? Subscribe to our daily newsletters.








Daily Intelligencer


Constant news updates on politics, business, media, and real estate.






Vulture


Breaking news and analysis on all the latest TV, movies, music, books, theater, and art.






The Cut


Get the latest fashion, beauty, and shopping news and recommendations.














No Thanks






We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please 
register
 again.






You are already registered. Please 
log in
.






Reset Your Password


Enter a new password




















Your password has been successfully changed.


Please 
log in
.


















