Follow
Sign in / Sign up
Home
Education
Student Stories
Media
Activism
Internships
Archives
About
Education Trends
Dr. Marco Bitetto
Blocked
Unblock
Follow
Following
Succeeding Despite Being Blind
Feb 6
NO BATTERIES EVER NEEDED
By
Dr. Marco A.V. Bitetto
The above drawing shows how possible future live could become in America.
America’s current energy policy of simply and massively allowing its vast reserves of coal to go up in smoke in order to generate electric power for the nation is simply folly. Since, this will only increase our dependence on foreign imports of oil from the most geo-politically unstable parts of the globe. This is not good for America in the long run.
The above photograph shows what will become common place throughout America if President Trumps energy policy prevails.
The reason why a say what I say is that it takes massive amounts of energy to extract coal from the bowels of the Earth. Additionally, the demand of imported foreign oil will thereby increase as a result of the increased demand for fuel from mining operations, transportation and industrial chemical production.
Some of the industrial chemicals that are currently commonly produced from the massively imported amounts of foreign oil are lubricants for machinery, pharmaceuticals, industrial dyes, pesticides, fertilizers, paints, wood stains, wood varnishes, plastics, synthetic fabrics and rubber production (ever since the middle 1940’s, all modern rubber production has involved synthetic processes that depend upon the use of petroleum). Each of these products are vital for both a prosperous economy and a modern way of life that we in America have grown accustom to living.
Instead, we should have an energy policy that encourages both alternate more efficient and substantially more cost effective methods of energy production to be used; instead of the century old most inefficient and least cost effective methods that our current governmental policies currently encourage.
The above six photographs and drawings show different aspects of beamed electric power technology that are needed to make such technology work.
One such alternate energy production technology is beamed electric power. In beamed electric power, the electric power is both produced by a network of orbiting solar power satellites that convert the sun’s light into massive amounts of electric power that is in turn beamed to various points on Earth within the United States and beamed to other parts of the country by terrestrial transmission towers. Thus all points within the United States are capable of converting these narrow microwave beams back into electric power.
Moreover, beamed electric power is 80% to 85% efficient and is the least expensive method of producing extremely massive and reliable amounts of electric power. This is in contrast to the current method of power generation and distribution that is in use today and is only 60% efficient. whence, if a network of orbiting solar power satellites satellites and beamed power transmission towers are used to transmit electric power from various locations on around the country to user points around the country then it is possible to have extremely reliable multiple megawatts of electric power available for use by commercial, industrial, residential, governmental and educational institutional users at merely pennies per megawatt of electric power. This is even cheaper than hydro-electric power, which is currently the cheapest form of terrestrial electric power production possible today.
Most importantly, the technology of beamed electric power was pioneered by Dr. Gerold O’Neil et al. [1970]. Dr. O’Neil demonstrated both the scientific foundations and the technological practicality of beamed electric power technology using a terrestrial testing site remotely located within the United States. His research efforts were jointly funded by both the U.S. Department of Energy and NASA.
You may now ask, why hasn’t these methods of beamed electric power production and transmission been used back in the 1970’s?
The answer to this question is simple. In the 1970’s until today, both the political will and the publics pseudo-science based hysteria of the environmental effects of beamed electric power technology. In terms of the political will factor on this issue, it was simply based upon the mistaken belief that coal, oil, natural gas, hydro-electric power and electric power production from the burning of garbage would be considerably cheaper forms of electric power production then beamed electric power production. On the other hand, the publics pseudo-science based hysteria of beamed electric power production methods producing both cooked and ready to eat birds falling from the sky and also production of huge numbers of killer mutants roaming the Earth is simply nonsense and totally scientifically unfounded.
Most significantly, beamed electric power would allow the chemical waste industry to convert massive amounts of toxic organic chemicals that are currently being stored in toxic waste land fills around the country, to be very easily converted into petroleum that cam be used by both the chemical industry for the production of lubricants for machinery, pharmaceuticals, industrial dyes, pesticides, fertilizers, paints, wood stains, wood varnishes, plastics, synthetic fabrics, rubber production and also production of fuel for transportation related users of all sorts. This chemical conversion technology is based upon firmly established chemical engineering principles related to a process called “thermal decomposition” that have been known for decades.
Furthermore, beamed electric power technology will allow the full scale adaption of all forms of nano-botic (molecular sized robots) to be used in all industries and even medical applications. This has been possible around the world since the early 2000’s and is thanks to the development of nano-scale fabrication technologies that were originally pioneered in the United States semiconductor industry. Presently, the current state of the art in nano-scale fabrication is 5 nanometer scale fabrication and this pioneering technology was developed by a United States company called Global Foundries. Moreover, Global Foundries is located in the Capital Region of New York State. A part of the country that is rapidly replacing California’s Silicon Valley as the high technology hub of the nation. The reasons for this national shift in technology hub locations are extremely cheap and extremely available land, extremely cheap and available highly skilled labor, extremely cheap and extremely available housing and extremely cheap and reliable electric power (source of which is hydro-electric power coming down from Canada and provided by the extremely modern and substantially better maintained Canadian power grid — more reliable than the older out dated United States power grid).
Best of all, nano-botic medicine coupled with the newly emerging RADAR based medical imaging technology (a technology that is vastly less expensive then today’s NMR medical imaging technology and can do even more than today’s NMR based medical imaging technology) holds the promise of offering cancer patients with fatal inoperable forms of cancer the ability to be successfully treated using inexpensive in office medical procedures that will neither require anesthesia or any form of hospital stay. The present global hub of this pioneering nano-botic medical technology is Madrid Spain and is largely the efforts of a pioneering doctoral level researcher by the name of Javier Cornel.
Beamed electric power technology further allows the development of an entirely autonomous robotic fire and forget technology that will replace all forms of current modern warfare methods currently in use today (such robotic weapons system can swim, be amphibious, maneuver over all types of terrain and even fly). These new robotic smart weapons system will never need to wait for the development of long duration storage battery technology before its wide spread deployment. Use of these discussed technologies will totally eliminate the need for “boots on the ground” for all forms of conventional military theater operations around the world and such technology will allow extended military operations that can last for several decades. Where the new national hub for military technology is now Detroit Michigan and no longer Northern California. The reasons for this shift are similar to the reasons for the national technology hub shift from Southern California to the Capital Region parts of New York State.
It should be noted that beamed electric power technology based robotic weapons systems will never be able to replace “boots on the ground” in special ops based military operations used by the United States military.
Furthermore, use of both superconductor technology and related beamed electric power technology will allow the massive economically practical development of both Earth orbiting space colonies and also Earth orbiting robotic refining and chemical production capabilities that are extremely difficult to do on an every crowded Earth. The raw materials for such can easily be mined from both the asteroid and comet belts of our solar system. Moreover, the excesses available from mining both the asteroid and comet belts can be sent down to Earth for industrial, commercial and residential uses.
Most importantly, these technologies will allow an entirely revolutionary production process know as “light industry” to be realized within the whole of America and done by home based businesses around America for very nominal amounts of start up capitalization that does not exceed twenty thousand U.S. dollars. This production technology is largely made possible thanks to cheap 3D printer technology, cheap multi-processor based super-workstation technology using UNIX-like operating systems, easy availability of artificial intelligence based software tools and widely available access to web based connectivity. However, presently all such “light industry” based businesses are made impossible due to out dated governmental regulations within the United States. Had it not been for these archaic government regulations, owning and running a home based “light industry” would be as profitable as being a ghetto drug dealer (if not more profitable).
It should be noted that both the nuclear fission based power technology and nuclear fusion based technologies are currently both technologically and economically impractical. This is a result of the fact that in the case of the nuclear fission based electric power generation, the major problem that makes it impractical is the long term storage of high level radioactive materials. Radioactive materials that require abundant amounts of land to store such high level radioactive materials for thousands of years (this is not possible any where on the planet). Furthermore, the necessary fast breeder reactor technology required to make fission based electric power generation technology practical is simply to primitive to be practical. Moreover, in the case of nuclear fusion based electric power generation, the technology of both nuclear fusion and its required assistive technologies (i.e. plasma induction based electric power generation and very high temperature superconductors) are still decades away from becoming scientifically and technically possible.
It should further be noted that China is currently embarking on a multi-decade nation wide project called the “millennium project” that will make China a global super power that is the world leader in science, technology, economic might, military might and a major world influencer on the geo-political stage. The pivotal technology that is at the center of the “millennium project” is none other than beamed electric power technology. If we allow China to deploy this technology before us then China will bury us in every way imaginable.
We should realize that neither India nor China are our friends. In reality both India and China are our strident global nemesis. Furthermore, our immigration laws in America allow foreign temporary guest workers to legally steal America’s scientific and technology related secrets and thereby threaten the very national security and economic prosperity of America. Since, such foreign temporary guest workers will ultimately return back to their countries and with tremendous backing of their countries (i.e. China and India) quickly deploy our stolen scientific and technical secrets to ultimately bury America scientifically, technically and economically (temporary foreign Chinese workers and workers from India exclusively dominate the high technology industries of America).
This should never be, only foreign workers that want to become American citizens should be allowed to work in America. In as much as such foreign workers are made to become American citizens, these foreign workers will have a vested stake in America and a vested stake in seeing to it that America prospers scientifically, technically and economically.
Most importantly, we should have removed all those archaic laws that prevent America from prospering scientifically, technically and economically on the world stage. We should also both eliminate those insane governmental social welfare laws that trap Americans in poverty for life; thus, not permitting poor Americans to economically lift themselves up by pulling themselves up by their own bootstraps and thereby keeping all poor Americans totally dependent on all forms of government assistance. This insanity has only been since the 1950’s to present in America and is the entire result of very bad government regulations. It never was before the reality in America.
Additionally, the entire American education system needs to be revamped from the ground on up to the highest levels of the university education system. In America all levels of the education system should be free to all those that have earn it by hard work and merit (exclusively merit based). At one time in America, free merit based education at all levels was the norm; but, today in America it is the exception (the sad state of affairs in American education is a result of detrimental government regulations).
Hopefully, my words will ultimately reach those in power and make a difference to change things for both America and all Americans, where everyone benefits. If those in power in America actually heed and shape governmental regulations based upon the facts and suggestions of this article then and only then will America once again regain its world class leadership role in science, technology and economics else all is lost for America and all Americans. The time of governmentally decreed studies and governmental debate over these vital issues facing America have ended. It is now time to act quickly to correct these problems facing both America and Americans as a whole.
Only through properly guided capitalism can poverty and homelessness in America be eliminated forever.
The readers of this article should understand that this article was not written to make money; but, it was written to hopefully make things better and because I am a true American patriot at heart.
I have written this article in both the spirit and tradition of such American historical giants as Mr. Vannevar Bush (a famous American Engineer) and Dr. Albert Einstein (a world famous American scientist).
To contact Dr. Bitetto, simply go to the below listed web-sites.
FACEBOOK:
https://www.facebook.com/drmarcobitetto
https://www.facebook.com/RobotronicsLLC
TWITTER:
@DrBitetto
For more articles point and click here.
Energy
Science
Technology
Economics
Poverty
3
Blocked
Unblock
Follow
Following
Dr. Marco Bitetto
Succeeding Despite Being Blind
Follow
Student Voices
voice is inherent. school is not.
Share
3
Never miss a story from
 Student Voices
, when you sign up for Medium. 
Learn more
Never miss a story from
 Student Voices
Get updates
Get updates
