 
























NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.


LEARN MORE »




















Sections




Home




Search


Skip to content


Skip to navigation


View mobile version










The New York Times












Politics
|
Confirmation of Betsy DeVos for Education Post Stalls as Both Sides Dig In
















Search




Subscribe Now


Log In






0


Settings










Close search




Site Search Navigation








Search NYTimes.com








Clear this text input








Go














https://nyti.ms/2jW4VQx










Loading...










See next articles












See previous articles




















Site Navigation






Site Mobile Navigation












Advertisement


















Supported by








Politics
 


Confirmation of Betsy DeVos for Education Post Stalls as Both Sides Dig In




By 
EMMARIE HUETTEMAN
FEB. 6, 2017








Continue reading the main story


Share This Page




Continue reading the main story


























Photo














Betsy DeVos, the nominee for education secretary, at her confirmation hearing last month.




Credit

            Al Drago/The New York Times        








WASHINGTON — Tensions over President Trump’s nominations turned into a parliamentary game of chicken on Monday, with Republican leaders vowing to keep the Senate in session, day and night, until lawmakers confirm four of his cabinet picks.
After days of grasping at procedural hurdles, Democrats held vigil against Betsy DeVos, Mr. Trump’s polarizing nominee for education secretary, and promised to spend the final 24 hours before her confirmation vote Tuesday reiterating their objections.
But as Democrats made clear they had no intention of yielding even a minute of their allotted floor time to debate Mr. Trump’s nominations — a final act of parliamentary disobedience for a minority party that lacks the votes to block a nominee on its own — Republicans stood their ground.
Daring Democrats to keep their word at the expense of several sleepless nights, Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the chamber’s No. 2 Republican, said the Senate session would not end until lawmakers confirmed four of Mr. Trump’s nominees: Ms. DeVos, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama as attorney general, Representative Tom Price of Georgia to lead the Department of Health and Human Services, and Steven T. Mnuchin as Treasury secretary.
 
Continue reading the main story














Continue reading the main story
























Audio









        Listen to ‘The Daily’
      


Why the nomination of Betsy DeVos for secretary of education is President Trump’s most controversial appointment in an already controversial cabinet.














LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP






LISTEN ON GOOGLE PLAY MUSIC
























The effort could last into Saturday and might involve burning “a little midnight oil,” Mr. Cornyn said.
Short one critical but elusive Republican “no” vote against Ms. DeVos — a billionaire philanthropist with little experience in public schools and 
a remarkably shaky showing
 at her confirmation hearing — Democrats on Monday did the only thing they could: They talked.




Advertisement




Continue reading the main story




Senator Patty Murray of Washington announced that Democrats would occupy the floor until the vote on Ms. DeVos’s nomination, which is expected around midday on Tuesday. Ms. Murray is the top Democrat on the committee that approved Ms. DeVos along a party-line vote, and one of her most strident opponents.
Publicly, Democrats held out hope that they could woo one more Republican dissenter to join Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska in voting against Ms. DeVos. Both 
announced last week
 that they would not support Ms. DeVos’s nomination.


Get the Morning Briefing by Email
 
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
 






Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.


Invalid email address. Please re-enter.


You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.








Sign Up
















Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.












Thank you for subscribing.


An error has occurred. Please try again later.


You are already subscribed to this email.


View all New York Times newsletters.






See Sample


Manage Email Preferences


Not you?


Privacy Policy








Their defections, combined with a unified vote from the Democratic caucus, set up a 50-50 tie on the nomination, which Vice President Mike Pence would have to break in his capacity as president of the Senate.
Appearing later at a demonstration outside the Capitol, Ms. Murray urged protesters to pressure Republicans to oppose Ms. DeVos. “If we can persuade one more Republican to do the right thing, we can double down on the message we’re all sending to President Trump: The Senate stands with public education!” Ms. Murray said.
A deluge of constituent calls and messages against Mr. Trump’s nominees and executive orders has overwhelmed some Senate offices and even the Capitol phone system in recent days, echoing demonstrations across the country. Energized by the opposition, Democrats seemed ready on Monday to resort to sleeping bags if necessary.




Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, said Ms. DeVos had embraced a philosophy that abandoned poorer families. She has been vehemently criticized by many education advocates for favoring voucher programs over repairing public schools.
“What do we say to them?” Mr. Van Hollen asked.




Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.


Follow The New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on 
Facebook
 and 
Twitter
, and sign up for the 
First Draft politics newsletter
.


A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2017, on Page A14 of the 
New York edition
 with the headline: Short One Vote to Defeat DeVos, Democrats Vow to Hold Senate Floor Through the Night. 
 
Order Reprints
|
 
Today's Paper
|
Subscribe










Continue reading the main story














We’re interested in your feedback on this page. 
Tell us what you think.




















The Trump White House


Stories about President Trump’s administration.



















                                The Pruitt Emails: E.P.A. Chief Was Arm in Arm With Industry            


FEB 22

















                                Fight Erupts in Trump Administration Over Transgender Students’ Rights            


FEB 22

















                                Hispanic Leaders Plan Fight Against Trump’s Agenda            


FEB 22

















                                Trump Appears Set to Reverse Protections for Transgender Students            


FEB 21

















                                Supreme Court Rejects Alabama Death Row Inmate’s Appeal            


FEB 21














See More »






























































What's Next






Loading...




















Go to Home Page »




Site Index




The New York Times












Site Index Navigation






News






World






U.S.






Politics






N.Y.






Business






Tech






Science






Health






Sports






Education






Obituaries






Today's Paper






Corrections










Opinion






Today's Opinion






Op-Ed Columnists






Editorials






Contributing Writers






Op-Ed Contributors






Opinionator






Letters






Sunday Review






Taking Note






Room for Debate






Public Editor






Video: Opinion










Arts






Today's Arts






Art & Design






Books






Dance






Movies






Music






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Television






Theater






Video: Arts










Living






Automobiles






Crossword






Food






Education






Fashion & Style






Health






Jobs






Magazine






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Real Estate






T Magazine






Travel






Weddings & Celebrations










Listings & More






Classifieds






Tools & Services






Times Topics






Public Editor






N.Y.C. Events Guide






Blogs






Multimedia






Photography






Video






NYT Store






Times Journeys






Subscribe






Manage My Account










Subscribe




Subscribe






Home Delivery








Digital Subscriptions








Times Insider








Crossword










Email Newsletters






Alerts






Gift Subscriptions






Corporate Subscriptions






Education Rate










Mobile Applications






Replica Edition


















Site Information Navigation







                    © 
2017
 The New York Times Company






Home


Search


Accessibility concerns? Email us at 
accessibility@nytimes.com
. We would love to hear from you.


Contact Us


Work With Us


Advertise


Your Ad Choices


Privacy


Terms of Service


Terms of Sale








Site Information Navigation




Site Map


Help


Site Feedback


Subscriptions






































