































































































































Log In or Sign Up








Log In






Sign Up







































                
              Topics
              
                









                
              Trending
              
              







            more
            

























          Topics
          
            










Culture






Policy & Politics






World






Business & Finance






Technology










Science & Health






Identities






Energy & Environment






Explainers






Video










First Person






Podcasts






The Big Idea






New Money













            Trending
            
          




✕


















































Partisanship of Cabinet confirmations is rising. But Trump’s picks are still different.




This chart that shows how Cabinet nominations have become hyperpartisan.



  
    Updated by

    


Alvin Chang
@alv9n





        Feb  7, 2017,  8:10am EST
      

















          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        
















It used to be common for all of a president’s Cabinet nominees to reach the Senate floor and be confirmed by at least 80 yea votes out of 100. But 
rising polarization
, along with a handful of divisive nominees,
 
has led to large blocs of opposing senators casting nay votes on Cabinet nominations starting in the early 2000s.


And this year, we’re seeing a continuation of that polarization, with a large group of Democrats saying they’ll oppose several of President Donald Trump’s nominees. That’s nothing new. However, what is different are the scant public service résumés of Trump’s nominees, including Betsy DeVos, who was tapped to be education secretary. In fact, Democrats are holding the floor for a 
24-hour talkathon
 to oppose DeVos’s nomination.


This kind of staunch and robust opposition to certain nominees started during George W. Bush’s first term, notably with most 
Democrats refusing to support
 attorney general nominee John Ashcroft because of his record on civil rights. (As Missouri’s attorney general, he was 
opposed
 to policies that allowed schools to desegregate.) And it only accelerated during Barack Obama’s presidency.


Recently, opposition parties have held up key picks for political reasons


In the past, most nominees were confirmed without much opposition on the Senate floor. In fact, before George W. Bush, one of the most contentious Cabinet votes was in 1989, when the Senate 
rejected
 George H.W. Bush’s first choice for defense secretary, John G. Tower. But that was because of potential conflicts of interest and concerns about his personal life; all of Bush’s other nominees were confirmed by wide margins. 
 










Fast-forward a decade, and increasingly we see Cabinet nominees who were confirmed by margins of fewer than 30 votes, and opposition largely along political lines:














The political polarization that caused these smaller confirmation margins is best illustrated by Obama’s 2013 nomination of Tom Perez for labor secretary. Despite no ethical or personal red flags against him, the Senate voted 
perfectly along party lines
. The 54 Democratic senators voted to confirm; the 46 Republican senators voted nay.


Among Trump’s six confirmed Cabinet members, the tightest votes have been for Secretary of State Rex Tillerson (a margin of 13 votes) and CIA Director Mike Pompeo (34 votes). And at this rate, it’s very possible DeVos ends up being the Cabinet member confirmed by the narrowest margin ever.
 










Attorney general has always been a closer vote


In the past 40 years, the most contentious Cabinet post has been attorney general. Even before Ashcroft, confirmation of Reagan’s second nominee, Edwin Meese III, was 
delayed 13 months
 and faced fierce opposition from Democrats because of ethical concerns. President Obama’s two nominees, Loretta Lynch and Eric Holder, faced opposition for 
political reasons
.


And Trump’s nominee, Jeff Sessions, is expected to continue that trend and receive a number of nay votes from Democrats, who are 
concerned with his civil rights record
.














The opposition Trump faces, versus what Obama and Bush faced


Both Obama and Bush nominated largely mainstream civil servants with many years of government service. Any lack of support for their nominees was usually along political lines, and not because the candidates knew little to nothing about the department they were about to lead.


Trump, however, has picked several people who have little or no experience in government. That includes DeVos, who was asked during her Senate hearing about a longstanding discussion in education — about whether students should be measured on how much they know or how much they grow — and failed to understand the question. Her lack of experience, both in government and with the public school system, contributed to her becoming among the least likely of Trump’s nominees to be confirmed, Vox’s Libby Nelson 
writes
. 


DeVos is among six Trump nominees who lack any government experience, according to a recent 
report
 by the American Enterprise Institute. The others are Ben Carson for housing and urban development secretary, Steven Mnuchin for Treasury secretary, Rex Tillerson for secretary of state, Andrew Puzder for labor secretary, and Linda McMahon as the head of the Small Business Administration.


And though Tillerson was confirmed 56-43, the overall portrait is one of a group of people who haven’t spent much time in public service:
























Was this article helpful?








Awesome, share it:











          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        
















Help us improve. Give us your feedback:




Your email address:


























In this Storystream


Donald Trump's nominations for Cabinet, White House team






549 key positions in the administration need Senate confirmation. So far, Trump has filled 14.






Partisanship of Cabinet confirmations is rising. But Trump’s picks are still different.






On the same day Rex Tillerson is confirmed, the House votes to kill a transparency rule for oil companies







    View all 
85
 stories
  


















Next Up In


Policy & Politics








Bill Maher gave Milo Yiannopoulos a megaphone. Now he's claiming credit for Milo’s fall.






What GOP Congress members are seeing at their town halls






How the DNC chair election works






Why the stock market loves Donald Trump






What a 19th-century French aristocrat can teach us about freedom






CPAC 2017: schedule, keynote speakers, and what to expect





































































      
        
          Most Read
        
      
    






















Donald Trump is dangerous when he’s losing






















Obama's White House photographer is now America's foremost purveyor of anti-Trump Instagram shade






















The fall of Milo Yiannopoulos, explained






















Why South Koreans now live longer than Americans






















The government just put out the blueprint for President Trump’s immigration crackdown
































Get Vox in your inbox








Enter your email address












By signing up you agree to our 
terms of use
.









  This Article has a component height of 23. The sidebar size is long.







































The Latest
























A viral blog post is forcing Uber to address its sexism problem



  
    by

    


Timothy B. Lee








CEO Travis Kalanick is promising to change Uber’s culture, but it won’t be easy.




























Bill Maher gave Milo Yiannopoulos a megaphone. Now he's claiming credit for Milo’s fall.



  
    by

    


German Lopez
@germanrlopez








The liberal TV host might be taking credit, but he had nothing to do with it.




























What Republican members of Congress are seeing at their town halls



  
    by

    


Tara Golshan








Angry crowds are showing up to demand that Republicans defend Obamacare and oppose Trump.




























Muslims are fundraising for a vandalized Jewish cemetery



  
    by

    


Tara Golshan








They’ve raised more than $64,000 to help the cemetery near St. Louis rebuild.




























NASA announcement: live-stream the space agency’s latest exoplanet discovery



  
    by

    


Brian Resnick
@B_resnick








It’s not aliens. It’s never aliens. 




























How the DNC chair election works



  
    by

    


Andrew Prokop








Whoever wins will become a leading voice of the Democratic Party.






































































Chorus










Terms of Use


Privacy Policy


Communications Preferences






Contact


Send Us a Tip


Community Guidelines


Masthead







  All Systems Operational
  
Check out our status page for more details.










Vox Media


Advertise with us


Jobs @ Vox Media

      
      © 2017 
Vox Media
, Inc. All Rights Reserved
      
      
    























          
            tweet
          
        













          
            share
          
        




























