 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Menu
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alaska News 
 
 
 
 Obituaries 
 
 
 
 Arctic 
 
 
 
 Politics 
 
 
 
 Outdoor/Adventure 
 
 
 
 Opinions 
 
 
 
 Sports 
 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alaska News
 
 
 
 
Alaska Life
 
 
 
 
Arctic
 
 
 
Arts & Entertainment
 
 
 
 
Business/Economy
 
 
 
 
Calendar
 
 
 
Alaska Marijuana News
 
 
 
Nation/World
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
 
Outdoors/Adventure
 
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
 
Subscribe
 
 
 
Visual stories
 
 
 
 
Best of Alaska
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
Games
 
 
 
Forecast
 
 
 
Special Sections
 
 
 
 
Sponsored Content
 
 
 
E-edition
 
 
 
Classifieds
 
 
 
 
Job Fair
 
 
 
Northern Love
 
 
 
AK Carfinder
 
 
 
Contact Us
 
 
 
Customer Service
 
 
 
Advertising
 
 
 
Reprints
 
 
 
Archives
 
 
 
Terms of Use
 
 
© 2017 Alaska Dispatch News
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wildlife
 
 
 
Science
 
 
 
Rural Alaska
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
Aviation
 
 
 
Mat-Su
 
 
 
Fairbanks
 
 
 
Anchorage
 
 
 
Weather
 
 
 
Crime & Courts
 
 
 
Events and Debates
 
 
 
 
 
 
We Alaskans
 
 
 
Alaskan pets
 
 
 
Gardening
 
 
 
Food & Drink
 
 
 
Travel
 
 
 
Shop 907
 
 
 
 
 
 
Books
 
 
 
Film & TV
 
 
 
Music
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business people
 
 
 
Energy news
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cartoons
 
 
 
Letters to the Editor
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bush Pilot
 
 
 
Fishing
 
 
 
Iditarod
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alaska Legislature
 
 
 
 
 
 
UAA Athletics
 
 
 
Alaska Baseball
 
 
 
Hockey
 
 
 
Skiing
 
 
 
National Sports
 
 
 
High School Sports
 
 
 
Jaromir Blagr: The Hockey Blog
 
 
 
Alaska Aces Hockey
 
 
 
 
 
 
Photos
 
 
 
Videos
 
 
 
 
 
 
61°North
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automotive Classifieds
 
 
 
Jobs
 
 
 
Real Estate Classifieds
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
 
 
Share on Twitter
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
Share on Whatsapp
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
Share on Reddit
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Google Plus
 
 
Print article
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
President Donald Trump
 
 
 
Visual Stories
 
 
 
Nation/World
 
 
 
Calendar
 
 
 
Games
 
 
 
E-edition
 
 
 
Sponsored Content
 
 
 
Customer Service
 
 
 
Best of Alaska
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 As promised, Alaska Sen. Murkowski votes against DeVos for education secretary 
 
 
 
 
 
Author:
 
Erica Martinson
 
 
 
 Updated: February 8 
 
 
 Published February 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sens. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, left, and Susan Collins, R-Maine, arrive at a Senate vote to confirm Betsy DeVos as education secretary, on Capitol Hill in Washington. (Al Drago / The New York Times)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WASHINGTON — Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski's decision to break party lines and 
vote against confirming education secretary nominee Betsy Devos
 on Tuesday meant Republicans 
had to call in Vice President Mike Pence 
to cast the tie-breaking vote.
 
 
 
 
 
 Murkowski and fellow Republican Sen. Susan Collins of Maine 
announced last week
 they would not vote for the nominee, whom they deemed unqualified for the position. The unusual move was in part driven, they said, by an unprecedented outpouring of citizen input.
 
 
 
 
 
 On Tuesday, Murkowski and Collins both entered the Senate chamber at 12:16 p.m. EST and voted no on the nomination. Neither meandered; both left immediately after.
 
 
 
 
 
 Sen. Dan Sullivan, R-Alaska, voted in favor of DeVos' confirmation.
 
 
 
 
 
 By the time Sen. Steve Daines, R-Mont., rushed in, just before 12:30 p.m., to cast the tying vote, a group of senators were waiting to hear the clerk announce a tally they had never before heard on a Cabinet confirmation: 50-50. Pence's tie-breaking vote was immediately considered and DeVos' nomination passed.
 
 
 
 
 
 The vote broke almost entirely along party lines: Democrats against, Republicans for — save for Murkowski and Collins. Both said they ultimately found DeVos to be unqualified. Murkowski spent hours with the nominee one-on-one, and said she could not allay her concern that DeVos had only experience in countering public education, not supporting it. Murkowski said alternative and charter schools are often not an option for Alaskans educating children in remote areas.
 
 
 
 
 
 But after Tuesday's vote, Murkowski urged cooperation.
 
 
 
 
 
 "Although I did not vote in favor of Betsy DeVos for education Secretary, now that she has been confirmed by the Senate it is important that we work together as she takes the helm at the Department of Education," Murkowski said. She touted "a common goal that all children receive the best education," and said she would hold DeVos to the promises she made in meetings. That included defending public education in Alaska and supporting laws on the books that offer education to children with disabilities. DeVos also promised Murkowski that she would not take efforts to "force" vouchers on the state.
 
 
 
 
 
 "I do look forward to her first visit to Alaska as secretary of education so she can learn more about the unique challenges and opportunities our schools face," Murkowski said.
 
 
 
 
 
 Alaskans and people in the Lower 48 who opposed DeVos
 overloaded Murkowski's Washington office phone lines
 for weeks. They sent letters and faxes, and some showed up at her offices in Washington and Alaska.
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Murkowski office overwhelmed with calls on Obamacare and education secretary
]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Many other lawmakers faced a similar deluge of calls. DeVos has drawn the most controversy and opposition of any of President Donald Trump's Cabinet nominees so far.
 
 
 
 
 
 The billionaire school-choice advocate is a longtime GOP mega-donor, as are other members of her family. The family donated more than $43,000 to Murkowski's last campaign and just over $23,000 to Sullivan's campaign, according to the Federal Election Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 Murkowski also received $10,000 from the National Education Association (NEA) during her last campaign, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The NEA was a driving force behind the campaign to upend DeVos' nomination.
 
 
 
 
 
 Sullivan said in a statement Tuesday that after his own meetings with the now-education secretary, he "was satisfied that Ms. DeVos truly cares about the education of all of Alaska's children – both in our rural and our urban areas – and, like me, fundamentally believes that education decisions are best left in the hands of state and local authorities, and that parental involvement is critical."
 
 
 
 
 
 Murkowski and Collins announced they would vote against DeVos a week before the vote took place, but a third Republican willing to cross the aisle did not emerge.
 
 
 
 
 
 Alaska public schools advocates at Great Alaska Schools sent Sullivan a petition signed by more than 1,200 Alaskans before Tuesday's vote, but Sullivan had already made his stance clear.
 
 
 
 
 
 Murkowski and Collins did not appear to be lobbying any of their colleagues to undercut DeVos' nomination. Murkowski said she felt her Senate colleagues each deserved to make an "up or down" vote on DeVos.
 
 
 
 
 
 An effort by dozens of Democrats to persuade another Republican to join Murkowski and Collins on Monday failed.
 
 
 
 
 
 At the White House press briefing Tuesday after the vote, Trump's spokesman Sean Spicer seemed to indicate that the president would not hold Murkowski's vote against her in the future.
 
 
 
 
 
 Spicer was asked about a previous statement that voters would remember how senators voted on the president's nominees; whether the president reached out to Murkowski and Collins; and if he too would not forget the Republicans' actions in the DeVos vote.
 
 
 
 
 
 
[
Here's how Alaska's senators are voting on Trump's cabinet nominees
] 
 
 
 
 
 
 Spicer said that Trump has been clear: It is Democrats who have been slowing and halting Cabinet nominations. He did not say if Trump had spoken to Murkowski but said White House staff had been in contact with staff and members across the Senate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "I think it's interesting that we're focusing on the votes of two Republicans when you look at the spectrum of antics that have gone on in the Democrats" to delay nominees' confirmations, Spicer said. "It's not the Republicans that have a problem here."
 
 
 
 
 
 NEA-Alaska President Tim Parker was hopeful that Alaskans' engagement on public education would continue through DeVos' term.
 
 
 
 
 
 "This isn't an end, but the beginning of an energized, grassroots movement to protect our public schools," he said in a statement Tuesday.
 
 
 
 
 
 Parker acknowledged that "this wasn't the outcome we wanted," but thanked the "thousands of Alaskans" who contacted their senators in recent weeks.
 
 
 
 
 
 "Alaska Senators Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan have committed to me that they will bring Secretary DeVos to our state so that we can show her what great public schools in both urban and rural Alaska look like. I look forward to her visit, so that she can hear directly the support our amazing communities have voiced for our public schools and our students," Parker said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subscribe to The Agenda, a weekly newsletter on the Alaska Legislature.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more newsletters click here
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About this Author
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Erica Martinson
 
Erica Martinson is Alaska Dispatch News' Washington, DC reporter, and she covers the legislation, regulation and litigation that impact the Last Frontier. Erica came to ADN after years as a reporter covering energy at POLITICO. Before that, she covered environmental policy at a DC trade publication and worked at several New York dailies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comments 
 
 
 
 
Alaska Dispatch News uses Civil Comments. Please keep your comments on-topic, focus on the issue and avoid personal insults, harassment and abuse. 
Read the user guide.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sponsored
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most-Read
 
 
 
1
Anchorage School Board cuts dozens of teaching positions, and the situation could get even worse
 
 
 
 
 
2
Family of a Mat-Su teen wanted him home. Instead, he died at a 'flophouse,' they say
 
 
 
 
 
3
How an interoffice spat at NOAA erupted into a climate-change furor
 
 
 
 
 
4
Carbon monoxide that killed Anchorage teen came from heating system boiler
 
 
 
 
 
5
In lawsuit, Alaska reality TV star alleges she was injured in forced stunt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADN Recommends
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Download Our App
 
 Subscribe to our Newsletters
 
 Get the Newspaper
 
 Contact Alaska Dispatch News
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 © 2017   Alaska Dispatch Publishing. All rights reserved.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
