







Jump to navigation














Member Benefits


Find your Local


How to Join














American Federation of Teachers






About Us
Mission


AFT Leadership


Resolutions


State of the Union


Financial Statements


State and Local Websites


History


Contact




Our Members
Early childhood educators


PreK-12 teachers


Paraprofessionals & school-related personnel


Higher education


Nurses and health professionals


Public employees


Retirees




Our Community
Featured partners


Immigration


Member engagement




Take Action
National & local actions


Reclaim the Promise


Subscribe to AFT e-newsletters




Press Center
Press Releases


New York Times columns


Blog


Speeches


Media Kits




Our News
Latest News


Periodicals


Randi's Corner


Search AFT Videos
















Search 
































Early Childhood


PreK-12 Public Education


Higher Education


Healthcare


Public Services


Retirement


















You are here
Home
 › 
Press Center
 › 
Press Releases
 › 
AFT President Randi Weingarten on the Confirmation of Betsy DeVos


























Press Release














AFT President Randi Weingarten on the Confirmation of Betsy DeVos


















For Release: 




Tuesday, February 7, 2017








Contact:






Marcus Mrowka





    202-531-0689 (cell)  



    mmrowka@aft.org  














Statement of AFT President Randi Weingarten on the confirmation of Betsy DeVos as secretary of education.
“DeVos’ confirmation battle has a major silver lining: The public in public education has never been more visible or more vocal, and it is not going back in the shadows. This same public—from rural towns to urban centers, from liberals to conservatives—will now serve as a check and balance, and they will be fierce fighters on behalf of children. I am honored to be a soldier in that movement for children.
“It’s telling that even when Trump had full control of the legislative and executive branches, he could only get DeVos confirmed by an unprecedented tiebreaking vote by his vice president. That’s because DeVos shows an antipathy for public schools; a full-throttled embrace of private, for-profit alternatives; and a lack of basic understanding of what children need to succeed in school.  
“If she wants to work with the educators who work hard every single day—in districts as diverse as McDowell County, W.Va., Detroit, and Scarsdale, N.Y.—to provide children the opportunities they deserve, we renew our invitation to have her visit America’s public schools and see the strategies that work for kids.
“But it’s more likely we’ll now hear the same trashing of public schools that the disrupters, the privatizers and the austerity hawks have used for the last two decades. That makes this a sad day for children.”






















# # # #
The AFT represents 1.6 million pre-K through 12th-grade teachers; paraprofessionals and other school-related personnel; higher education faculty and professional staff; federal, state and local government employees; nurses and healthcare workers; and early childhood educators.




















Press Center




Press Releases


New York Times columns


Blog


Speeches


Media Kits






















follow-randi.png










































Stay Connected


Facebook


Twitter


YouTube


RSS


Text Message


Tumblr














Contact


AFT Store


Careers at AFT


Privacy Policy












Randi Weingarten
President
Lorretta Johnson
Secretary-Treasurer
Mary Cathryn Ricker
Executive Vice President






Our
 Mission
The American Federation of Teachers is a union of professionals that champions fairness; democracy; economic opportunity; and high-quality public education, healthcare and public services for our students, their families and our communities. We are committed to advancing these principles through community engagement, organizing, collective bargaining and political activism, and especially through the work our members do.










© American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO.  All rights reserved.
Photographs and illustrations, as well as text, cannot be used without permission from the AFT
.














