









































































































































 




































































News
Election 2016


Americas


UK


World


Europe


Business




Voices
Comment


Robert Fisk


Mark Steel


Grace Dent


Holly Baxter


Campaigns


Editorials


Letters




Sports
US sports


Soccer


Tennis


Boxing


Formula 1


WWE




Culture
Film


TV


Music


Books




Lifestyle
Fashion


Food + drink


Travel


Health + families


Love + sex




Tech
Gaming


Tech culture


Tech news




US election


Daily Edition
Subscribe for a free trial


Read Now




 










 












 










UK Edition 






US Edition 












Sign in


Register


Subscriptions


 














 












 
News
Election 2016


World


US


UK


Europe


People


Science


Health


Business




Voices
Comment


Robert Fisk


Mark Steel


Grace Dent


Holly Baxter


Campaigns


Editorials


Letters




Sports
US sports


Soccer


Cricket


Tennis


Boxing


Formula 1




Culture
Books


Film


TV


Music


Art


Theatre & Dance


Comedy




Lifestyle
Food & drink


Health & families


Love & sex


Motoring


Student


Travel


Fashion




Tech
Gaming


Tech culture


Tech news




Video
Explainer videos


News videos


People & culture videos


Sport videos




IndyBest
Fashion & Beauty


Homes & Design


Food & Drink


Gadgets & Tech


Outdoor & Activity


Arts & Books


Travel




Money
Health insurance


Investments




Extras
The Independent Books


Puzzles


indy100


Apps


Ebooks


iJobs


Dating




 


Follow us:




































We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our 
Privacy
 and 
Cookie
 Policies to find out more.




 














News
World
Americas


Betsy DeVos confirmed: Trump education pick stumbles over finishing line after Mike Pence casts tie-breaking vote




She has been voted in despite being called unqualified and lacking basic knowledge about education and teaching methods








Rachael Revesz

                      New York                  




@RachaelRevesz




Tuesday 7 February 2017 17:31 GMT
















Click to follow
The Independent US




















 

        Ms DeVos is a billionaire lobbyist and philanthropist with anti-LGBT views      






Popular videos






More than 1,000 chicks found abandoned in field










Mike Pence says US to hold Russia accountable, stand with Nato










One million penguins gather in Argentina to feast on abundant fish 










At least one person dead  after train derails near Brussels












Betsy DeVos has been voted in as education secretary after Vice President Mike Pence cast a rare, tie-breaking vote on the Senate floor.


There were 51 votes in her favour and 50 against. 


She was the only cabinet pick to come close to failure after Democrats successfully stalled and delayed her hearing.


The vote came after the Democrats staged a 24-hour protest in the Senate, asking for support from just one more Republican to break the vote in their favour.






Read more








Democrats to pull all-nighter to stop Trump's Education Secretary pick






In the days before her appointment, congressional switchboards were jammed as people phoned in to protest to their representatives.


Two Republican senators, Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, were against her appointment, but a third Republican dissenter was needed. 


Mr Pence was filmed running up the steps to the Senate on Tuesday morning to cast his vote for Ms DeVos and ensure a 50-50 tie.


It was the first time in American history that a Vice President's vote was required to break a tie for a cabinet pick.




This cabinet nom is so unqualified, so divisive, that 
@MikePenceVP
 had to drive down Pennsylvania Ave to cast the deciding vote.

— Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) 
February 7, 2017


Jeff Sessions, the incoming Attorney General, also voted in her favour. His confirmation vote was scheduled for just after Ms DeVos to ensure he could take part.


Filings from the Federal Election Commission show that her family previously donated to more than 20 Republicans who voted in her favour.


Ms DeVos tweeted after the vote that she “appreciated the Senate's diligence” and was “honoured” to be appointed.


“Let's improve options and outcomes for all US students,” she tweeted.




I appreciate the Senate's diligence & am honored to serve as 
@usedgov
 Secretary. Let's improve options & outcomes for all US students.

— Betsy DeVos (@BetsyDeVos) 
February 7, 2017


She also re-tweeted a social media post from President Trump, who said the Democrats were protesting in order to “keep a failed status quo”.


House speaker Paul Ryan said her appointment was ensuring that schools did not suffer from “innovation-crushing regulations” and that state schools had more control over their educational agenda.


“States and local communities need the flexibility to be able to innovate,” he said in a statement. “These rules crush the spirit of federalism that strengthens schools and helps kids across the country. That’s why we’re repealing them today.”




Senate Dems protest to keep the failed status quo. Betsy DeVos is a reformer, and she is going to be a great Education Sec. for our kids!

— President Trump (@POTUS) 
February 7, 2017


Democrats accused her of not having any experience in the classroom and being head of an agency that funds free schools, which she is against. She is in favour of school choice and charter schools, which means federal funds could be diverted from free schools and disadvantage the lowest income students further.


Chuck Schumer, the Senate Minority Leader, said she was the “least-qualified nominee in a historically unqualified cabinet”.


“On conflicts of interest she ranks among the worst,” he said on the floor during the all-night filibustering session. “She seems to constantly demand the main purpose of her job: public education.”




Read more




Sanders grills Trump’s education secretary over family's billions


Betsy DeVos confirmed as secretary by senate committee


Betsy DeVos blames "clerical error" for being VP of anti-LGBT group






Senator Al Franken grilled the billionaire philanthropist during her senate confirmation hearing last month on her thoughts about teaching methods, and said he was surprised that she knew so little of an issue that had been discussed in education for years.


She was asked about proficiency versus growth, and she appeared flustered and asked for clarification.


She has also come under fire for lobbying government for anti-LGBT and anti-abortion bills.


Civil rights groups said they were “deeply concerned” about Ms DeVos, who could dismantle protections for LGBT and transgender students.










Betsy 
DeVos
 blames 'clerical error' for years as VP of 
anti-LGBT
 foundation


When asked why she served as vice president of an anti-LGBT foundation for years, she said it was a “clerical error”.


Her family has donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to groups that promote “conversion therapy” for gay people.


In her new role, she will be responsible for deciding which federal education laws schools abide by in each state.







              More about:
            


Betsy DeVos


Donald Trump


Education Secretary


Cabinet






Reuse content






















 






 








 




Comments






























Most Popular


















Video










Sponsored Features


























Follow us:
















User Policies


Privacy Policy


Cookie Policy


Code of Conduct


Complaint Form


Contact Us


Contributors


All Topics


Archive


Newsletters


Jobs


Subscriptions


Advertising Guide


Syndication


Evening Standard


Novaya Gazeta


Install our Apps


 


 


 


 


 






 






















Close








We've noticed that you are using an ad blocker.


Advertising helps fund our journalism and keep it truly independent. It helps to build our international editorial team, from war correspondents to investigative reporters, commentators to critics.




Click here to view instructions
 on how to disable your ad blocker, and help us to keep providing you with free-thinking journalism - for free.


Thank you for your support.


 






How to disable your ad blocker for 
independent.co.uk


 Adblock / Adblock Plus




Click the Adblock/Adblock Plus icon, which is to the right of your address bar.


On Adblock click "Don't run on pages on this domain".


On Adblock Plus click "Enabled on this site" to disable ad blocking for the current website you are on. If you are in Firefox click "disable on 
independent.co.uk
".




Firefox Tracking Protection




If you are Private Browsing in Firefox, "Tracking Protection" may cause the adblock notice to show. It can be temporarily disabled by clicking the "shield" icon in the address bar.




Ghostery




Click the Ghostery icon.


In versions before 6.0 click "whitelist site".


In version 6.0 click "trust site" or add 
independent.co.uk
 to your Trusted Site list.


In versions before 6.0 you will see the message "Site is whitelisted".


Click "reload the page to see your changes".




uBlock




Click the uBlock icon.


Then click the big power button to whitelist the current web site, and its state will be remembered next time you visit the web site.


Then reload the page.


 










Close








Thank you for supporting 
independent.co.uk
 


Continue to our site












 


























































