

















































































 
Watch Live: Sean Spicer Holds White House Press Briefing
 
  |
                            
 
Watch Live: NASA Announces New Discovery of Planets 'Beyond Our Solar System'
 






Get Alerts
                        


















































Sections




 Nightly News


MSNBC


 Meet the Press


 Dateline


Today








Search










Search


























Share on Facebook
















Share on Twitter
















Email page link




















Secondary Navigation










Sections




U.S.


World


Local


Politics


Investigations


Health


Mach


Tech


Science


BETTER


Pop Culture


Lifestyle


Business


Weather


Sports


Latino


Asian America


NBCBLK


NBC OUT












Top Ongoing






Dakota Pipeline Protests






ISIS Terror






TV




Nightly News


Meet The Press


Dateline


Today




Featured




NBC News VR


Your Business


Inspiring America


NBCBLK28












Multimedia




Video


Photo




More From NBC




Sports


CNBC


MSNBC.com


NBC.com


NBC Learn


Re/Code


Peacock Productions


Next Steps for Vets


Parent Toolkit


































 NBC News works best with JavaScript turned on
            
















 Feedback






advertisement












advertisement






















feature





  NBC OUT









































NBC OUT






Feb 7 2017, 3:27 pm ET










Rosie O’Donnell: ‘Of Course I Would’ Play Bannon on ‘
SNL
’






by
 
Mary Emily O'Hara




















Share








Share








Tweet








Share




























Comment








Email








Print














advertisement


























Play
































Facebook






Twitter






Google Plus






Embed










Overseas Comedians Mock Trump's 'America First' Slogan


2:50




autoplay 


autoplay 








Copy this code to your website or blog
















 Rosie O'Donnell has volunteered to dress up and play Steve Bannon, the controversial former Brietbart editor currently serving as President Donald Trump's chief strategist. 


 Calls to cast O'Donnell as Bannon on "Saturday Night Live" went viral on social media Monday night as Twitter users cracked jokes about how much the casting would likely drive Trump — who seems to consider O'Donnell an arch-enemy of sorts — into a rage. 


 Melissa McCarthy's inspired take on White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer dominated headlines since the show aired over the weekend. Adding to the fire, 
Politico.com late Monday quoted sources close to the White House as saying
 insiders were most upset that Spicer was played by a woman. NBC News hasn't confirmed those accounts. 
















Steve Bannon and Rosie O'Donnell.
 
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images and Bryan Bedder/Getty Images






 In an interview Tuesday, O'Donnell told NBC News that she's game for the role: "If asked, of course I would." 


 "Alec is amazing, Melissa McCarthy was perfect. It's a funny idea. But SNL knows what they are doing," said O'Donnell. 


 "I have hosted the show in my youth," she added. "Quite an honor. I loved it." 


 It's unclear whether SNL producers, who declined to comment, plan to add O'Donnell to the ever-expanding list of guest stars whose scathing parodies of the Trump administration have caused the president to lash out on Twitter. Alec Baldwin's performances as Trump have drawn sustained attention over many months. Meanwhile, Bannon has been played by cast member Mikey Day in a Grim Reaper outfit. 


I'm begging you 
@SNL
 - please get Rosie O'Donnell to play "President Bannon" over 
#BLOTUS
. He'll melt like the Wicked Witch! 
#TheResistance
 
pic.twitter.com/DhaZuvgtvH
— Captain Janeway (@CaptJaneway2017) 
February 7, 2017
 


 Spicer appeared to be a good sport about the parody Monday, saying McCarthy's impression was "funny," although he believed she "could dial back" her raging portrayal of his news briefings. 


 In contrast, Trump has repeatedly attacked SNL, clearly bugged by Baldwin's spray-tanned Trumped-up caricature. In one of a series of tweets, Trump called the show "unwatchable" and "not funny," before ending with his characteristic punctuation, "sad." 


Just tried watching Saturday Night Live - unwatchable! Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can't get any worse. Sad
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
December 4, 2016
 


 Trump has also spent considerable energy going after O'Donnell, on and off Twitter. The feud between the two television stars goes back at least as far as 2006, when O'Donnell criticized Trump on "The View" and he immediately told People magazine that she was a "loser." 


 He would later echo the sentiment in dozens of tweets about O'Donnell — criticizing everything from her former fiancée to her weight and appearance. 


 And in an infamous August 2015 Republican primary debate during which Megyn Kelly listed various insulting words Trump had used to describe various women, he interrupted to retort, "
Only Rosie O'Donnell
" — which drew laughs from the crowd but wasn't true. 


I feel sorry for Rosie 's new partner in love whose parents are devastated at the thought of their daughter being with 
@Rosie
--a true loser.
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
December 14, 2011
 


Rosie is crude, rude, obnoxious and dumb - other than that I like her very much!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
July 11, 2014
 


 O'Donnell isn't alone, at least: Trump has also fixated on other female celebrities, like Kelly and Kristen Stewart. Stewart's opening monologue on SNL last weekend centered on the president's apparent obsession with her relationship woes with ex-boyfriend Robert Pattinson. Trump's tweets about the "Twilight"-starring couple were roundly mocked. 


 NBC News asked the White House for Bannon's comment regarding the potential casting, but it didn't immediately get a response. 














Mary Emily O'Hara




Twitter


Facebook


Email










Topics 
, 
TV




First Published
 
Feb 7 2017, 1:13 pm ET
















 Next Story


Alleged Draft Letter Would Rescind Justice Department's Transgender Student Policy




















advertisement






















advertisement












advertisement




































About Us


Careers


Contact






Privacy Policy
                  
New






Terms of Service






nbcnews.com Site Map






Advertise






AdChoices




© 2017 NBCnews.com






































































































































