



































Slate










Sign In


Sign Up






































Stephen Colbert Returns to Form As a Bowling Green Massacre Truther










Stephen Colbert Returns to Form As a Bowling Green Massacre Truther




















































Slate










Sign In


Sign Up












 




























Slate
Brow Beat
Slate's Culture Blog
Feb. 7 2017 3:45 AM




Stephen Colbert Returns to Form As a Bowling Green Massacre Truther





































      
        By 
Matthew Dessem


























































 






















 
 
Stephen Colbert gets truthy.
 
CBS




















Stephen Colbert has always been at his best in the face of outright liars—you’d expect no less from the man who coined the word “truthiness”—and Kellyanne Conway’s 
“Bowling Green massacre” story
 inspired him to return to rhetorical heights he hasn’t reached since the Bush administration. But not without giving audiences a little peek behind the curtain at the way Trump 
exploits
 the 
peg-driven
 culture of the content industry by piling outrage upon outrage:






I was not going to talk about this story, because it happened last Thursday, and the crazy train had gone way down the track since then, and I figured this tired hobo just missed his chance to jump in the box car. But today the president just gave me a reason to talk about it.






When a senior advisor to the president is justifying policy on the basis of 
massacres that never happened
, that really shouldn’t be a Thursday-only story, even if Trump and his cronies have moved on to 
wilder things
 in the interim. But it’s fortunate that Colbert and his staff found an excuse to bring up Conway, because watching Colbert string negatives together like 
Martin Amis imitating Samuel Beckett
 is a delight:






I think we all remember where we weren’t when we didn’t hear that nothing had happened. … Just because it didn’t happen doesn’t mean it wasn’t an inside job. Think about it! If America isn’t going to be attacked, who’s most likely not to do it? Us! … I demand that the media not release the reports they did not do on the attacks that did not occur. And I will not rest until they don’t!






Moving to CBS may have 
softened Colbert’s edges
, but it’s good to see he can still take an absurd lie from an absurd advisor to an absurd president all the way to its absurd conclusion. Something tells me that’s going to come in handy over the next four years.


















Matthew Dessem
 is Brow Beat’s nights and weekends editor and the author of a 
biography of screenwriter and director Clyde Bruckman
.






























































































 
















Load Comments






Powered by Livefyre














































Slate










Sign In


Sign Up




















































FOLLOW SLATE






Twitter






Facebook






Instagram












SLATE ON




IPHONE


ANDROID


KINDLE








Reprints


Advertise with us
















ABOUT US


CONTACT US


WORK WITH US


USER AGREEMENT


PRIVACY POLICY


FAQ






FEEDBACK


CORRECTIONS








Slate Group






Panoply




Slate is published by The Slate Group, a Graham Holdings Company. All contents ©
        2017  The Slate Group LLC. All rights reserved.




 




























Slate
















Slate










Sign In


Sign Up


















































