

 
 
 
 
 
 


















































 






Citibank: Stop funding the Dakota Access Pipeline today!










Citibank is the lead funder of the Dakota Access Pipeline — a project that tramples on the rights of Indigenous people and has led to rampant police violence against unarmed water protectors.


Donald Trump and Army Corp of Engineers just decided to disregard the pipeline's environmental review process and let construction proceed. We can still stop the pipeline if institutions like Citibank pull funding and give the developers no choice but to back out.


Tell Citibank to stop funding human rights abuses and environmental destruction by ending its support of the Dakota Access Pipeline today!















Message






*


Subject:












Dear Barbara J. Desoer, Citibank CEO,








*


Personalize your message






Citibank -- along with the other 17 banks involved -- must stop funding the Dakota Access Pipeline immediately. 

Citibank claims that it supports the protection and elevation of human rights around the world. But the Dakota Access Pipeline project denies the rights of the Indigenous people who would be directly affected by a pipeline going under their water supply -- and has reacted to the peaceful protests of unarmed water protectors with militarized police and violence.

Citibank's Environmental and Social Risk Management policy clearly states that the company weighs projects against environmental, social, and human rights standards, including risks to cultural property, heritage, and Indigenous communities. To honor its own commitments to the Indigenous community and the environment, the bank MUST halt further loan disbursements.

The key concern for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and communities downstream of the pipeline are spills into their drinking water. And rightly so, considering the abysmal track record of Energy Transfer Partners, who is responsible for the pipeline operations via their partner Sunoco Logistics. Since 2010, Sunoco Logistics has had the most pipeline spills in the industry -- over 200, including the Permian Express II spill in Texas in September 2016, which spilled 800 barrels of oil. This is not a track record that instills confidence in this pipeline project.

Financial institutions like Citibank MUST take responsibility when funding the destruction of Indigenous peoples and their lands. Please listen to the thousands of people who have taken action against the Dakota Access Pipeline across the world  many of them current or potential Citibank customers and stop funding this pipeline today.









Sincerely,
[Your Name]
 
[Your Address]
 
[City, State ZIP]
[Your Email]










Contact


*
Required fields






*


First Name:
















*


Last Name:
















*


Your Email:
















*


ZIP / Postal Code:

















 





Want to receive the most important and urgent alerts to your phone? 
Just enter your mobile number. 
Reply "STOP" to unsubscribe at any time.
 
Privacy Policy










1.









Question - Not Required -




Mobile Phone:




 















 




Remember me. 
What's this?









Greenpeace US may contact you by email or phone with campaign updates and other offers of engagement. You can unsubscribe at any time.

































© Copyright
 |

Privacy policy
 |

Contact us


























