 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sections 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign In
 
 
 
 
 
Username
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subscribe
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accessibility for screenreader
 
 
 
Home Page
 
 
 U.S. & World 
 
|
 
 Regional 
 
 
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
 
 
PowerPost
 
 
 
The Fix
 
 
 
White House
 
 
 
Courts and Law
 
 
 
Polling
 
 
 
Monkey Cage
 
 
 
Fact Checker
 
 
 
Post Politics Blog
 
 
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
 
 
The Post's View
 
 
 
Toles Cartoons
 
 
 
Telnaes Animations
 
 
 
Local Opinions
 
 
 
Global Opinions
 
 
 
Letters to the Editor
 
 
 
Act Four
 
 
 
All Opinions Are Local
 
 
 
Book Party
 
 
 
Compost
 
 
 
Erik Wemple
 
 
 
Five Myths
 
 
 
In Theory
 
 
 
The Plum Line
 
 
 
PostEverything
 
 
 
PostPartisan
 
 
 
Rampage
 
 
 
Right Turn
 
 
 
The Watch
 
 
 
Volokh Conspiracy
 
 
 
DemocracyPost
 
 
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
 
 
Redskins
 
 
 
NFL
 
 
 
MLB
 
 
 
NBA
 
 
 
NHL
 
 
 
AllMetSports
 
 
 
Soccer
 
 
 
Boxing/MMA
 
 
 
College Sports
 
 
 
College Football
 
 
 
College Basketball
 
 
 
D.C. Sports Bog
 
 
 
Early Lead
 
 
 
Fancy Stats
 
 
 
Golf
 
 
 
Tennis
 
 
 
Fantasy Sports
 
 
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
 
 
D.C.
 
 
 
Maryland
 
 
 
Virginia
 
 
 
Public Safety
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
Transportation
 
 
 
Weather
 
 
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
 
 
Acts of Faith
 
 
 
Health and Science
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
Investigations
 
 
 
Morning Mix
 
 
 
Post Nation
 
 
 
True Crime
 
 
 
Obituaries
 
 
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
 
 
Africa
 
 
 
The Americas
 
 
 
Asia and Pacific
 
 
 
Europe
 
 
 
Middle East
 
 
 
National Security
 
 
 
WorldViews
 
 
 
Checkpoint
 
 
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
 
 
Wonkblog
 
 
 
On Leadership
 
 
 
Personal Finance
 
 
 
Digger
 
 
 
Energy and Environment
 
 
 
Markets
 
 
 
On Small Business
 
 
 
World Business
 
 
 
Capital Business
 
 
 
 
 
Tech
 
 
 
 
 
Innovations
 
 
 
The Switch
 
 
 
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
 
 
 
Arts and Entertainment
 
 
 
Advice
 
 
 
Carolyn Hax
 
 
 
Food
 
 
 
Travel
 
 
 
Wellness
 
 
 
Magazine
 
 
 
Home and Garden
 
 
 
Inspired Life
 
 
 
Fashion
 
 
 
KidsPost
 
 
 
On Parenting
 
 
 
Reliable Source
 
 
 
The Intersect
 
 
 
Solo-ish
 
 
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
 
 
Books
 
 
 
Comics
 
 
 
Comic Riffs
 
 
 
Going Out Guide
 
 
 
Horoscopes
 
 
 
Movies
 
 
 
Museums
 
 
 
Music
 
 
 
Puzzles and Games
 
 
 
Theater and Dance
 
 
 
TV
 
 
 
Restaurants
 
 
 
Bars & Clubs
 
 
 
 
 
Crosswords
 
 
 
Video
 
 
 
 
 
World
 
 
 
Top News
 
 
 
Entertainment
 
 
 
Local
 
 
 
Popular Video
 
 
 
Politics
 
 
 
Live
 
 
 
Sports
 
 
 
Opinions
 
 
 
National
 
 
 
Business
 
 
 
Technology
 
 
 
Style
 
 
 
 
 
Podcasts
 
 
 
Photography
 
 
 
 
 
In Sight
 
 
 
 
 
Washington Post Live
 
 
 
 
 
Events
 
 
 
 
 
Live Chats
 
 
 
Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
Rentals
 
 
 
Where We Live
 
 
 
Recently Sold Homes
 
 
 
 
 
Cars
 
 
 
Jobs
 
 
 
Classifieds
 
 
 
Partners
 
 
 
 
 
Express
 
 
 
Parade
 
 
 
 
 
WP BrandStudio
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
 
 
 1996-2017 The Washington Post 
 
 
 
Terms of Service
 
 
 
Privacy Policy
 
 
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
 
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
 
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
 
 
Share on Twitter
 
 
Share on Google Plus
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
Share on LinkedIn
 
 
Share on Pinterest
 
 
Share on Tumblr
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resize Text
 
Print Article
 
 
Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The inside track on Washington politics. 
 
 
 
 Be the first to know about new 
 
 stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published. 
 
 
 You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up 
 
 
*Invalid email address
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Desktop notifications are on   | 
Turn off
 
 
 
 
 
 
Get breaking news alerts from 
 The Washington Post 
 
 
Turn on desktop notifications?
 
 
Yes
 
Not now
 
 
 
 
It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Answer Sheet
 
 
 
A sobering look at what Betsy DeVos did to education in Michigan — and what she might do as secretary of education
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The inside track on Washington politics. 
 
 
 
 Be the first to know about new 
 
 stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published. 
 
 
 You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published. 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up 
 
 
*Invalid email address
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
Got it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
Valerie Strauss
 
 
By 
Valerie Strauss
 
 
 
December 8, 2016
 
 
Follow @valeriestrauss
 
 
 
 
 
 
Betsy DeVos, President-elect Donald Trump’s secretary of education pick. (Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg News)
 
 
The people who best know the education advocacy work of Betsy DeVos, the billionaire tapped by President-elect Donald Trump to be his education secretary, are in Michigan, where she has been involved in reform for decades.
 
DeVos is a former Republican Party chairwoman in Michigan and chair of the pro-school-choice advocacy group American Federation for Children, and she has been a shining light to members of the movement to privatize public education by working to create programs and pass laws that require the use of public funds to pay for private school tuition in the form of vouchers and similar programs. She has also been a force behind the spread of charter schools in Michigan, most of which have recorded student test scores in reading and math below the state average.
 
 
 [
What’s the worst that can happen with Betsy DeVos as education secretary? Two scenarios.
] 
 
 
Many pro-school-choice groups have praised the choice, saying DeVos will work hard to grow new programs that give parents more school choice. But public education advocates say that they fear she will help propel America’s public education system toward destruction.
 
The Detroit Free Press has written a number of articles about DeVos’s education record in Michigan. 
Here is an important piece
 looking at what a DeVos Education Department could be expected to do, written by someone who has watched her work for some time. He is Stephen Henderson, editorial page editor of the Free Press, where this first appeared.  He gave me permission to republish it.
 
 
 [
Watch Betsy DeVos’s confirmation hearing
] 
 
 
By Stephen Henderson
 
In Detroit, parents of school-age children have plenty of choices, thanks to the nation’s largest urban network of charter schools.
 
What remains in short supply is quality.
 
In Brightmoor, the only high school left is Detroit Community Schools, a charter boasting more than a decade of abysmal test scores and, until recently, a superintendent who earned $130,000 a year despite a dearth of educational experience or credentials.
 
On the west side, another charter school, Hope Academy, has been serving the community around Grand River and Livernois for 20 years. Its test scores have been among the lowest in the state throughout those two decades; in 2013 the school ranked in the first percentile, the absolute bottom for academic performance. Two years later, its charter was renewed.
 
Or if you live downtown, you could try Woodward Academy, a charter that has limped along near the bottom of school achievement since 1998, while its operator has been allowed to expand into other communities.
 
For students enrolled in schools of choice — that is, schools in nearby districts who have opened their doors to children who live outside district boundaries — it’s not much better. Kids who depend on Detroit’s problematic public transit are too far away from the state’s top-performing school districts — and most of those districts don’t participate in the schools of choice program, anyway.
 
This deeply dysfunctional educational landscape — where failure is rewarded with opportunities for expansion and “choice” means the opposite for tens of thousands of children — is no accident. It was created by an ideological lobby that has zealously championed free-market education reform for decades, with little regard for the outcome.
 
And at the center of that lobby is 
Betsy DeVos
, the west Michigan advocate whose family has contributed millions of dollars to the cause of school choice and unregulated charter expansion throughout Michigan.
 
Unqualified
 
President-elect Donald Trump has made a number of controversial cabinet nominations already. But none seems more inappropriate, or more contrary to reason, than his choice of DeVos to lead the Department of Education.
 
DeVos isn’t an educator, or an education leader. She’s not an expert in pedagogy or curriculum or school governance. In fact, she has no relevant credentials or experience for a job setting standards and guiding dollars for the nation’s public schools.
 
She is, in essence, a lobbyist — someone who has used her extraordinary wealth to influence the conversation about education reform, and to bend that conversation to her ideological convictions despite the dearth of evidence supporting them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
President-elect Donald Trump named Betsy DeVos as his nominee for education secretary. Here's what you need to know about the conservative activist and billionaire donor. (The Washington Post)
 
 
 
For 20 years, the lobby her family bankrolls has propped up the billion-dollar charter school industry and insulated it from commonsense oversight, even as charter schools repeatedly failed to deliver on their promises to parents and children.
 
DeVos is a believer, and a powerful influence wielder for the special interest she has championed. But that doesn’t make her the right pick to helm an entire arm of the federal government. Wealth should not buy a seat at the head of any policy-making table.
 
That is true especially in public education — a trust between government and the people that seeks to provide opportunity for those who wouldn’t otherwise have it.
 
The conflicts
 
Supporters call Betsy DeVos an “advocate” who cares for children. And she may be that.
 
But the policy expression of that concern has been one-sided, and as much about establishing an industry as it is about kids.
 
The DeVoses have helped private interests commandeer public money that was intended to fulfill the state’s mandate to provide compulsory education. The family started the Great Lakes Education Project, whose political action committee does the most prolific and aggressive lobbying for charter schools.
 
Betsy DeVos and other family members have given more than $2 million to the PAC since 2001. GLEP has spent that money essentially buying policy outcomes that have helped Michigan’s charter industry grow while shielding it from accountability.
 
This summer, 
the DeVos family contributed $1.45 million over two months
 — an astounding average of $25,000 a day — to Michigan GOP lawmakers and the state party after the Republican-led Legislature derailed a bipartisan provision that would have provided more charter school oversight in Detroit.
 
GLEP also pushed hard — and successfully — to lift the cap on charter schools a few years ago, even though Michigan already had among the highest number of charters in the nation despite statistics suggesting charters weren’t substantively outperforming traditional public schools.
 
And in 2000, the DeVos extended family 
spent $5.6 million
 on an unsuccessful campaign to amend Michigan’s constitution to allow school vouchers — the only choice tool not currently in play in Michigan.
 
Even if Betsy DeVos ceased her substantial contributions to pro-school choice lawmakers, or to GLEP’s PAC, what credibility would she have in a policy job that requires her to be an advocate for all schools? Would her family divest from the PAC if she were Secretary of Education? Rein in campaign spending? And even if it did, how could she credibly distance herself from her history as a lobbyist?
 
About those outcomes
 
Beyond the conflicts, there are also deep questions about Betsy DeVos’ substantive understanding of education policy.
 
As a private citizen, she’s free to hold any belief she wants, and to promote her beliefs however she likes, regardless of how it comports with fact or outcome. But as Secretary of Education, DeVos would be expected to help set standards, guide accountability and oversee research in a way that benefits children, through outcomes, not one particular interest or industry. And more important, the U.S. Secretary of Education must understand the value of both high-performing charters and traditional public schools.
 
She has no track record of working along those lines, and no experience that suggests she’s even interested in it.
 
Largely as a result of the DeVos’ lobbying, Michigan tolerates more low-performing charter schools than just about any other state. And it lacks any effective mechanism for shutting down, or even improving, failing charters.
 
We’re a laughingstock in national education circles, and a pariah among reputable charter school operators, who have not opened schools in Detroit because of the wild West nature of the educational landscape here.
 
In Michigan, just about anyone can open a charter school if they can raise the money. That’s not so in most other states, where proven track records are required.
 
In other states, poor performers are subject to improvement efforts, or sometimes closed. By contrast, once a school opens in Michigan, it’s free to operate for as long as it wants, and is seldom held accountable by state officials for its performance. Authorizers, often universities, oversee operation according to whatever loose standards they choose.
 
And in Michigan, you can operate a charter for profit, so even schools that fail academically are worth keeping open because they can make money. Michigan leads the nation in the number of schools operated for profit, while other states have moved to curb the expansion of for-profit charters, or banned them outright.
 
The illusion of choice
 
The results of this free-for-all have been tragic for Michigan children, and especially for those in Detroit, where 79% of the state’s charters are located.
 
A yearlong Free Press investigation
 found that 20 years after Michigan’s charter school experiment began, Detroit’s charter schools have shown themselves to be only incrementally stronger, on average, than traditional public schools. They have admirable graduation rates, but test scores that look nearly identical to those of public schools.
 
The most accurate assessment is that charter schools have simply created a second, privately managed failing system. Yes, there are high-performing outliers —  a little more than 10% of the charter schools perform in the top tier. But in Detroit, the best schools are as likely to be traditional public schools.
 
DeVos and her family have not been daunted by these outcomes.  It’s as if the reams of data showing just incremental progress or abysmal failure don’t matter. Their belief in charter schools is unshakable, their resistance to systematic reforms that would improve both public and charter schools unyielding.
 
They have also pushed hard on schools of choice, where districts open their borders to kids from other jurisdictions.
 
In concept, it could be a great equalizer: Children from poor districts could attend schools that have many more resources. But in practice, it has played out quite differently. In districts that participate in choice, white and more affluent parents have fled as poorer, minority kids have come into their schools, exacerbating de facto segregation, according to 
a report by Bridge Magazine
.
 
Outcomes first
 
This newspaper has been, and will continue to be, an advocate for successful charter schools, and for educational choice as one way — but certainly not the only way —  to improve this state’s school landscape.
 
But it’s impossible to imagine such improvement will be aided by an education secretary who is so willfully impervious to the relevant data.  Instead, Betsy DeVos’ lodestar has been her conviction that any nontraditional public school is better than a traditional one, simply because it’s not operated by government.
 
Charter school advocates like DeVos reject any criticism of charters as a defense of the status quo. But that’s a gross and partisan distortion, especially for people like me.
 
I’ve made the most personal endorsement possible by sending my two children to charter schools in Baltimore and here in Detroit. In both cases, we’ve chosen high-quality charters; in Detroit, the best choices were far scarcer than in Baltimore. And to get into the high-performing school we chose in Detroit required an extraordinary effort. I have the income, the transportation and access to be sure my kids get the best opportunity available.
 
Most Detroit parents don’t enjoy those same advantages, and they are stuck choosing from among a sea of mediocrity or worse.
 
What Detroit needs are better, high-quality choices — public, charter, whatever.
 
But DeVos and her family have stood in the way of improving what we have. They’ve stood for the charter industry and its middling results, over our kids.
 
I’m certain she’ll try to make the nation’s charter landscape look more like the chaos we face here in Detroit, and less like it does in states like Tennessee or Massachusetts or Maryland — all much better performers who have tighter reins on charter creation and proliferation.
 
Her lobbying hasn’t been good for Detroit, or Michigan.
 
It won’t be good for the nation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
local
 
 
answer-sheet
 
Orlando Shooting Updates
 
News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history.
 
post_newsletter348
 
follow-orlando
 
false
 
after3th
 
false
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please provide a valid email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up
 
 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
local
 
 
answer-sheet
 
Dallas shooting updates
 
News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11.
 
post_newsletter353
 
follow-dallas
 
true
 
endOfArticle
 
false
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please provide a valid email address. 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up
 
 
 
 
 You’re all set! 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Facebook
Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share on Twitter
Tweet
 
 
 
 
 
Share via Email
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Valerie Strauss covers education and runs The Answer Sheet blog.
 
 Follow @valeriestrauss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Show Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion Policy
 
 
 
0
 Comments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SuperFan Badge
 
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Culture Connoisseur Badge
 
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Fact Checker Badge
 
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to 
The Fact Checker
.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Washingtologist Badge
 
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Post Writer Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
 
 
 
Post Forum Badge
 
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Weather Watcher Badge
 
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
World Watcher Badge
 
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Post Contributor Badge
 
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
 
More about badges
 | 
Request a badge
 
 
 
Post Recommended
 
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
 
 
 
You must be logged in to report a comment.
 
Sign in here
 
 
 
You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
 
Sign in here
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
All comments are posted in the 
All Comments
 tab.
 
More about badges
Get a badge
 
 
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
 
 
 
 
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in 
Top Comments
, as are comments by users with these badges: 
. Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spam
 
Offensive
 
Disagree
 
Off-Topic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Facebook
 
 
Twitter
 
 
Reddit
 
 
 
 
 
StumbleUpon
 
 
Digg
 
 
Delicious
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Most Read 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 Mar-a-Lago 3, Camp David 0. With Trump as president, is the rustic Md. retreat doomed? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 Analysis 
 Ohio Gov. Kasich is trying to impose this misguided mandate on teachers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 Three D.C. monuments damaged with graffiti over holiday weekend 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 The warm winter means cherry blossoms will peak early — here’s how soon it could be 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 A Christian mom blogger announces she’s engaged to soccer star Abby Wambach 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our Online Games 
 
 
 
Play right from this page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mahjongg Dimensions 
 
Strategy game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Spider Solitaire 
 
Card game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mahjongg Candy 
 
Strategy game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Word Wipe 
 
Word game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
local
 
 
answer-sheet
 
 
 
 
 
Success!
 Check your inbox for details.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please enter a valid email address 
 
 
 
You might also like: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sign Up
 
No Thanks
 
 
 
See all newsletters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search Jobs
 
 
Featured Jobs
 
 
 
 
 
coordinator, membership & marketing 
 
 
 
The Endocrine Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
specialist, digital marketing
 
 
 
The Endocrine Society
 
 
 
 
 
 
word processor/receptionist - reston
 
 
 
Legal E
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washingtonpost.com
 
© 1996-2017 The Washington Post
 
 
 
Help and Contact Us
 
Terms of Service
 
Privacy Policy
 
Print Products Terms of Sale
 
Digital Products Terms of Sale
 
Submissions and Discussion Policy
 
RSS Terms of Service
 
Ad Choices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Close video player
 
Now Playing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Read content from allstate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Content from Allstate 
 
This content is paid for by an advertiser and published by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the creation of this content. 
Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
 
 
 
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
 
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
