

































LOGIN






























Lost your password?












Connect with:





			Facebook
		



			Twitter
		



			Google
		





















						Logging In 




















SIGN UP










Create an Inhabitat account


 


















Sign up for weekly newsletter










I agree to receive emails from the site. I can withdraw my consent at any time by unsubscribing.






Do you live in Canada? 
Register here.




























Connect with:





			Facebook
		



			Twitter
		



			Google
		















						Signing Up 




















LOST PASSWORD



























						Checking for Account 






























































instagram


twitter


facebook


pinterest




user






Log In


Sign Up














opener






News


Environment


Architecture


Design


Innovation




More




About


Mission


Submit a story


Advertise with us


Contact


Press


Legal


Privacy Policy


Cookie Policy










Log In


Sign Up












































 


 


















































Seattle votes to divest billions of dollars from Wells Fargo over Dakota Access pipeline














02/07/2017




  under 
Climate Change
, 
environmental destruction
, 
global warming
, 
News





                                                by 
Jasmin Malik Chua
 




1








 






 



                                        by 
Jasmin Malik Chua
 










View Slideshow






Seattle could pull billions of dollars out of its longtime bank because of its role in the construction of the 
Dakota Access oil pipeline
. On Wednesday, a Seattle City Council committee voted unanimously to divest nearly $3 billion of the city’s funds from 
Wells Fargo
, one of 17 financial institutions involved in financing the contentious project. Although the bill still has to undergo a procedural vote by the full council on Tuesday, it is “widely expected to pass,” activist Shaun King wrote in the 
Daily News
. During the hearing, councilwoman Debora Juarez said that committee members all agreed that divestment was 
the city’s “goal.”










 




 




 




 
















Should the legislation push through, Seattle will not renew its contract with Wells Fargo when it expires in 2018. Neither will the city be allowed to make new investments with the bank for three years.


The proposal would be a major victory for the pipeline’s opponents, who returned to the site of last year’s monthslong protests at 
Standing Rock
 after President 
Donald Trump
 ordered the 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
 to expedite the completion of the 1,000-mile-long oil pipeline.




“You faced down attack dogs, blizzards and rubber bullets,” councilwoman Kshama Sawant, who co-sponsored the bill, told a crowd on Wednesday, referring to the thousands of Native Americans and activists who faced off with law enforcement during last year’s standoff. “If we do not fight we will not win.”


“Let’s build on this, make sure other cities move to divest from Wells Fargo,” she added.






Related: 76 water protectors arrested at Standing Rock


Jessica Ong, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said that the bank respects “all the views” being expressed in the dispute, including those of the Seattle City Council members.


“We are obligated to fulfill our legal obligations as outlined under the credit agreement,” she said. “That being said, we remain respectful of the concerns being expressed by tribal governments and communities, other groups, and individuals.”


Meanwhile, in North Dakota, hundreds of demonstrators clashed with police in riot gear in 14-degree weather. A “rogue group” of 76 protestors who illegally set up camp on private property was arrested and taken to local jails, according to authorities.


“After repeated warnings to vacate a camp being illegally set up on private property in southern Morton County, south of Backwater Bridge, approximately 76 members of a rogue group of protesters were arrested by law enforcement officials today,” the 
Morton County Sheriff’s Department
 said in a press release.


Via 
Grist


Photos by 
Mike Mozart
 and 
Bryce Edwards










 




 




 




 


















 








View Comments (1)






LEAVE A COMMENT
































 








 





			One thought on “Seattle votes to divest billions of dollars from Wells Fargo over Dakota Access pipeline”		
















Margaret Gray


February 10, 2017 at 5:17 pm				




Collective ...people...COLLECTIVE! We need a collective on everything good going on!










RECOMMENDED FOR YOU


















 
environment




View Gallery (3)












Abandoned oil and gas wells are leaking me...






















 
news




View Gallery (2)












Dakota Access Pipeline protesters raise ov...






















 
environment




View Gallery (12)












8 ways to help the water protectors at the...






 
































 




HOW TO: Grow an Avocado Tree from an Avocado Pit














 




NASA confirms a second mini moon is circling Earth










 




 




Ireland votes to be world's first country to fully divest fro ...














 




7 DIY face masks for healthy, gorgeous spring skin










 




 




Octopuses are taking over the oceans, and no one knows why














 




Here’s every bank funding the Dakota Access Pipeline, and h ...










 




 




How to make your own green terrarium to keep or give away for ...














 




6 Tiny Homes under $50,000 you can buy right now










 




 




China's first vertical forest is rising in Nanjing














 




New net-zero Solar Farmhouse from Deltec generates all its ow ...










 




 




Beauer 3X camper telescopes to three times its size in 20 sec ...














 




Apple design director perfects a prefab home into an ultra-mi ...










 














































Start Slideshow
































 Share
 
 Pin
 
 Tweet
 
+








Design












 Share
 
 Pin
 
 Tweet
 
+














 
Start
Slideshow






 


 


 


 










>


















                                Seattle votes to divest billions of dollars from Wells Fargo o...                            




 Share


 Pin


 Tweet


+




























 


 




 












 
 






