









































































































































SUBSCRIBE


LOG IN


LOG OUT


REGISTER


MY PROFILE




Obituaries






Events






Jobs






Real Estate






Cars






Classified






PG Store






























 

        February 22, 2017 1:19 PM
        




7-day Forecast






 


















 








 






 Post-Gazette.com 




Archives




 


 


 


 


 




 






 









			 Home 
			
		











			 News
			
		











			 Local 
			
		











			 Sports
			
		











			 Opinion
			
		











			A & E
			
		











			 Life
			
		











			 Business
			
		











			 Contact Us
			
		


































Advertisement
















 


























 












State legislators, education officials react to appointment of Betsy DeVos


Now that the Michigan billionaire is confirmed — barely — educators hope her inexperience doesn’t become a liability.



	
		February 7, 2017 5:04 PM
























 




J. Scott/Associated Press
Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., left, and Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., arrive for the vote on Capitol Hill in Washington. Mr. Toomey voted in favor of Betsy Devos.
















 




Carolyn Kaster/Associated Press
Betsy DeVos was confirmed today as education secretary.


























 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 










By Elizabeth Behrman / Pittsburgh Post-Gazette




Some Pennsylvania education advocates are disappointed that Michigan billionaire Betsy DeVos is officially the U.S. Secretary of Education, but many said today they will continue to press her to protect public education.


“I congratulate Ms. DeVos,” said Lawrence Feinberg, co-chair of the Keystone State Education Coalition. “I wish her the best of luck getting up to speed. I would strongly invite her to come visit our schools and to learn what public education is actually about.”


The Senate confirmed Ms. DeVos, a school choice advocate and longtime Republican donor, in a 50-50 vote today, with Vice President Mike Pence voting to break the tie in a historic vote.


Mr. Feinberg’s organization opposed Ms. DeVos’ appointment and urged U.S. Sen. Pat Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, to vote against her last week.


“I just hope she gets out in the field and gets to see the good work that public schools are doing and isn’t just looking at education through a filter of school choice,” Mr. Feinberg said.


Sen. Toomey, who voted in her favor, released a statement last week praising Ms. DeVos for her work to provide quality school options to all children.


“Because of Betsy’s work to expand charter schools, virtual schools, school choice, tuition tax credits and education savings accounts, hundreds of thousands of children who had been trapped in failing schools have been able to access a quality education,” he said.


But Democrats cited her lack of experience working with public schools and her financial ties to charter schools among reasons for their opposition.


“We lost a vote on Betsy DeVos, now we begin holding her accountable,” U.S. Sen. Bob Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat who voted against her appointment, tweeted after the noon Senate vote. “The effort that began with families and students is just getting started.”


The Pennsylvania Coalition of Public Charter Schools did not oppose her nomination and praised Ms. DeVos’ record of supporting charter schools, said director Robert Fayfich.


“I’m hopeful of what’s going to happen,” he said. “She’s a charter supporter and that’s great. But we’re supporters of charters with accountability and (good) performance.”


Mr. Fayfich added that he hopes she will appoint team members who have sufficient experience in areas of education that she doesn’t have.


Wythe Keever, spokesman for the Pennsylvania State Education Association, said the teachers’ union was disappointed in the outcome of the vote but proud of the mobilization and outpouring of support it received from its members.


“Betsy DeVos may have survived the confirmation vote, but her agenda may not,” he said. “This is not the end of the battle against privatization of public schools. It’s only the beginning.”












Related Media:








Pittsburgh students protest DeVos confirmation; press Toomey on vote












DeVos ekes out confirmation win as Pence casts historic vote








 First Published February 7, 2017 3:57 PM






Sign up for free newsletters and get more of the Post-Gazette delivered to your inbox


















 Most Read 










 Most Emailed 














Advertisement
















 






 Most Commented 






















Join the conversation:




Commenting policy
 | 
    
How to report abuse









        To report inappropriate comments, abuse and/or repeat offenders, please send an email to 

        socialmedia@post-gazette.com
 and include a link to the article and a copy of the comment. Your report will be reviewed in a timely manner. 
        Thank you.
    






Commenting policy
 | 
    
How to report abuse






















































Your e-mail:
















Your Name:
















Friends e-mail:
















Friends Name:
















Message:






























Captcha


















Submit














Advertisement
















 


















































Create a free PG account.


Register - FREE








Already have an account?


Login












Subscribe to the PG


Subscribe








Customize your free Newsletter Preferences


Email Preferences












Advertisement
















Advertisement














 


























































Pittsburgh Post-Gazette










HOME








NEWS








LOCAL








SPORTS








OPINION








A & E








LIFE








BUSINESS








VIDEO








PHOTO








CLASSIFIEDS








JOBS








CIRCULARS








CARS








REAL ESTATE








PG STORE








WEDDINGS












Site Map


Media Kit




About Us


 RSS Feeds


Technical Help?


Terms of Use


Privacy Policy










PG Sites:


 


Sports Blogs


PowerSource


Staff Blogs


Community Voices


Early Returns


Sportstown


Pittsburgh Mom


The Digs


Special Projects


Plate


Pets










Social Media:


 


Twitter:


  
News


  
Customer Care


Facebook


Pinterest


Google+












Help:


 


Subscriber services 


Online support center


Products and services


Today’s PGe


Contact Us








Subscribe:


 


Home Delivery


Digital Subscriptions 


Email Newsletters









				Copyright 
©
 1997—2017 PG Publishing Co., Inc. All Rights Reserved.
			






























































































