









































































































































 




































































News
Election 2016


Americas


UK


World


Europe


Business




Voices
Comment


Robert Fisk


Mark Steel


Grace Dent


Holly Baxter


Campaigns


Editorials


Letters




Sports
US sports


Soccer


Tennis


Boxing


Formula 1


WWE




Culture
Film


TV


Music


Books




Lifestyle
Fashion


Food + drink


Travel


Health + families


Love + sex




Tech
Gaming


Tech culture


Tech news




US election


Daily Edition
Subscribe for a free trial


Read Now




 










 












 










UK Edition 






US Edition 












Sign in


Register


Subscriptions


 














 












 
News
Election 2016


World


US


UK


Europe


People


Science


Health


Business




Voices
Comment


Robert Fisk


Mark Steel


Grace Dent


Holly Baxter


Campaigns


Editorials


Letters




Sports
US sports


Soccer


Cricket


Tennis


Boxing


Formula 1




Culture
Books


Film


TV


Music


Art


Theatre & Dance


Comedy




Lifestyle
Food & drink


Health & families


Love & sex


Motoring


Student


Travel


Fashion




Tech
Gaming


Tech culture


Tech news




Video
Explainer videos


News videos


People & culture videos


Sport videos




IndyBest
Fashion & Beauty


Homes & Design


Food & Drink


Gadgets & Tech


Outdoor & Activity


Arts & Books


Travel




Money
Health insurance


Investments




Extras
The Independent Books


Puzzles


indy100


Apps


Ebooks


iJobs


Dating




 


Follow us:




































We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our 
Privacy
 and 
Cookie
 Policies to find out more.




 












News
World
Americas


Steve Bannon ‘connects network of white nationalists’ at the White House




Donald Trump’s chief strategist has long studied nationalist movements and even considered hiring someone to monitor them around the world








Rachael Revesz

                      New York                  




@RachaelRevesz




Tuesday 7 February 2017 15:05 GMT
















Click to follow
The Independent US





















        Mr Bannon is now a permanent member of the National Security Council, thanks to an executive order which he drafted 
Getty
 






Steve Bannon has been recommending books about nationalism to colleagues and considered hiring someone to monitor nationalist movements around the world as his boss signs executive orders to ban refugees and cut regulations.


Donald Trump’s chief strategist has been described as a voracious reader, and the books tend to share a similar argument: that Western civilization is being destroyed and only a shock to the system can reverse its decline.


He also strongly believes in a theory, espoused in one of his favourite books, 
The Fourth Turning
 by William Strauss and Neil Howe, that history unfolds in cycles of 80 to 100 years.


At the end of the cycle, the old order is destroyed and replaced.








Read more










Rosie O'Donnell wants to play Steve Bannon to really piss off Trump






In Mr Bannon’s view, the next cycle was sparked by the financial crisis and gave rise to the election of Mr Trump. His 2015 documentary, 
Generation Zero
, drew heavily on this theory.


Lacy MacAuley, an activist and member of the Washington DC Antifascist Coalition, told 
The Independent:
 "I absolutely think Steve Bannon is connected to a network of white nationalists. Just in the last few years there have been contractual obligations between white supremacist James O’Keefe at Project Veritas and Breitbart."


Mr O'Keefe was known, she said, for taking down institutions and organisations via fake news.


"I would say that Steve Bannon is the advocate for white nationalism in the White House and there’s no doubt in my mind on that. It’s not just through Breitbart, it’s through his entire line of work."












Trevor Noah: Steve 
Bannon
 is the ‘real President'




Mr Bannon recruited from this pool to fill out the National Security Council. He reportedly added himself to the NSC 
without Mr Trump knowing 
as he drafted the executive order himself.


Daryle Lamont Jenkins, executive director of the anti-racist organisation One People's Project, told 
The Independent
, said that paleoconservatives attempt to use theories and academia to justify their racism. Mr Bannon went to Harvard, and Jared Taylor, a prominent white supremacist, went to Yale.


"We've been dealing with a cluster of white supremacists within the beltway of the Washington DC area who do just that: they try to back up their racism and justify why they should have a separation of the races, and justify a more strident attack on African Americans in the name of 'fighting crime'," he said.


In Mr Bannon's network is Curtis Yarvin, known as "Mencius Moldbug", who gathered a global following after writing in his blog in 2008 that "nonsense is a more effective organising tool than the truth." 


He also asked “What’s so bad about the Nazis?” and wrote about how he "stopped believing in democracy".


"Moldbug" was escorted out of a computer software conference where he was scheduled to speak due to his blog posts and Breitbart covered the incident as "censorship". Now "Moldbug" has a line to the White House, through an intermediary, and was deeply sceptical that the Russians were behind the "influence campaign" during the election, as reported by 
Politico
.












Steve 
Bannon
 being talked about will be his kiss of death




Michael Anton, a former managing director for investment firm BlackRock, also sits on the NSC. He was a former speech writer for Rudy Giuliani and George W Bush's NSC. He wrote a post called "The Flight 93 Election", under the pseudonym Publius Decius Mus in September 2016, that said "America and the West are on a trajectory toward something very bad."


He argued that electing Mr Trump was simply worth trying, rather than elect another member of the “bipartisan junta” and the end of civilization.




"2016 is the Flight 93 election: charge the cockpit or you die," he said.


"You may die anyway. You—or the leader of your party—may make it into the cockpit and not know how to fly or land the plane. There are no guarantees."




Read more




The alarming parallels between Steve Bannon and Islamist jihadis


Steve Bannon once wrote a rap musical with gangster soldiers


Steve Bannon portrayed as Nazi in Chinese state media cartoon






Mr Bannon was reportedly the architect behind the Muslim ban, including barring visa and green card holders.


When far right French politician Marine Le Pen came to visit Mr Trump in the White House, he had invited her. The ultra-conservative website that he founded, Breitbart, covered her career extensively.


He boasted last July that 
Breitbart
 had become the "platform for the alt-right". Now his platform has become the government.







              More about:
            


Steve Bannon


White House


Donald Trump


white supremacism






Reuse content






















 






 








 




Comments






























Most Popular


















Video










Sponsored Features


























Follow us:
















User Policies


Privacy Policy


Cookie Policy


Code of Conduct


Complaint Form


Contact Us


Contributors


All Topics


Archive


Newsletters


Jobs


Subscriptions


Advertising Guide


Syndication


Evening Standard


Novaya Gazeta


Install our Apps


 


 


 


 


 






 






















Close








We've noticed that you are using an ad blocker.


Advertising helps fund our journalism and keep it truly independent. It helps to build our international editorial team, from war correspondents to investigative reporters, commentators to critics.




Click here to view instructions
 on how to disable your ad blocker, and help us to keep providing you with free-thinking journalism - for free.


Thank you for your support.


 






How to disable your ad blocker for 
independent.co.uk


 Adblock / Adblock Plus




Click the Adblock/Adblock Plus icon, which is to the right of your address bar.


On Adblock click "Don't run on pages on this domain".


On Adblock Plus click "Enabled on this site" to disable ad blocking for the current website you are on. If you are in Firefox click "disable on 
independent.co.uk
".




Firefox Tracking Protection




If you are Private Browsing in Firefox, "Tracking Protection" may cause the adblock notice to show. It can be temporarily disabled by clicking the "shield" icon in the address bar.




Ghostery




Click the Ghostery icon.


In versions before 6.0 click "whitelist site".


In version 6.0 click "trust site" or add 
independent.co.uk
 to your Trusted Site list.


In versions before 6.0 you will see the message "Site is whitelisted".


Click "reload the page to see your changes".




uBlock




Click the uBlock icon.


Then click the big power button to whitelist the current web site, and its state will be remembered next time you visit the web site.


Then reload the page.


 










Close








Thank you for supporting 
independent.co.uk
 


Continue to our site












 


























































